<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_1_102" xtrc="" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">1.102</ph> Guiding principles for the System.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d9e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d11e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>  The System will-</p>
               <ol id="ol_xky_2d5_52c" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Meet an agency’s mission efficiently and effectively first;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Ensure the most effective use of taxpayer dollars in ways that recognize the value of time, encourage innovation, promote merit, satisfy the customer, and balance these interests and objectives;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>  Maximize buying commercial products or commercial services rather than requiring Government-unique solutions; </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Award contracts to contractors who demonstrate a superior ability to perform;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>  Promote competition and fair opportunity;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         Conduct business with integrity, fairness, and openness; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>  Delegate the authority to make decisions and the accountability for the decisions to the lowest level within the System, consistent with law. The contracting officer must have the authority, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with law, to determine how and when to apply rules, regulations, and policies on a specific contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d11e15" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d9e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d11e21" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>  Acquisition team members in the System include Government acquisition representatives from the technical, supply, sourcing, small business and procurement areas; the customers they support; and the contractors who deliver the products and services.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d11e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>  The role of each acquisition team member in the System is to exercise personal initiative and sound business judgment to meet the agency’s mission and manage risk.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d11e47" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> To continually promote innovation, the FAR encourages acquisition team members to pursue new approaches, and document successes and lessons learned.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> In this spirit, acquisition team members may assume that if a specific strategy, practice, policy, or procedure is in the best interests of the Government and is not addressed in the FAR, nor prohibited by law (statute or case law), Executive order or other regulation, then they are allowed to use the strategy, practice, policy, or procedure.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Acquisition team members should work together as a team and be empowered to make decisions within their area of responsibility.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Acquisition team members can propose deviations from FAR regulations if the deviation would promote economy, efficiency, or innovation (see subpart 1.3).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> To achieve efficient operations, the System must focus on “risk management.” Attempting to eliminate all risk is prohibitive in terms of cost to the taxpayer.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
