<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="FAR_1_301"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">1.301</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d31e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d31e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e15">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                Subject to the authorities in paragraph (c) of this section and other statutory authority, an agency head may issue or authorize the issuance of agency acquisition regulations that implement or supplement the FAR and incorporate, together with the FAR, agency policies, procedures, contract clauses, solicitation provisions, and forms that govern the contracting process or otherwise control the relationship between the agency, including any of its suborganizations, and contractors or prospective contractors.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e20">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                Subject to the authorities in paragraph (c) of this section and other statutory authority, an agency head may issue or authorize the issuance of internal agency guidance at any organizational level (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> designations and delegations of authority, assignments of responsibilities, work-flow procedures, and internal reporting requirements).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Agency heads shall establish procedures to	ensure that agency acquisition regulations are published for comment in	the Federal Register</i> in conformance with the procedures in <xref href="Subpart_1.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_1_5"
                        base="i1126551"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  1.5</xref> and	as required by 41 U.S.C.	1707, and other applicable statutes, when they have a significant	effect beyond the internal operating procedures of the agency or have a	significant cost or administrative impact on contractors or offerors.	However, publication is not required for issuances that merely implement or	supplement higher level issuances that have previously undergone the public	comment process, unless such implementation or supplementation results in an	additional significant cost or administrative impact on contractors or	offerors or effect beyond the internal operating procedures of the issuing	organization. Issuances under <xref href="#FAR_1_301"
                        base="i1126703"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">1.301</xref>(a)(2)	need not be publicized for public comment.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> When adopting acquisition regulations, agencies shall ensure that they comply with the Paperwork Reduction Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3501&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">44 U.S.C. 3501</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et seq.</i>) as implemented in 5 CFR 1320 (see <xref href="1.106.dita#FAR_1_106"
                        base="i1126974"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">1.106</xref>) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section601&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5 U.S.C. 601</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et seq.</i>). Normally, when a law requires publication of a proposed regulation, the Regulatory Flexibility Act applies and agencies must prepare written analyses, or certifications as provided in the law.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e64">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						            Agency acquisition regulations implementing or supplementing the FAR are, for-</p>
               <ol id="d31e102" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e70">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                The military departments and defense agencies, issued subject to the authority of the Secretary of Defense;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e75">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                NASA activities, issued subject to the authorities of the Administrator of NASA; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d33e80">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                The civilian agencies other than NASA, issued by the heads of those agencies subject to the overall authority of the Administrator of General Services or independent authority the agency may have.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
