<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="FAR_1_304" xtrc="" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1.304</ph> 
         <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Class deviations.</b> 
      </title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><ol id="d34e13" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li "><p id="d36e10" class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Class deviations affect more than one contract action. A deviation for any solicitation that will result in multiple contract awards will need to be done as a class deviation. When an agency knows that it will require a class deviation on a permanent basis, it may develop and propose a FAR revision. </p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p id="d36e21" class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Agency heads may authorize class deviations from the FAR. Agency-specific class deviations must be approved by the FAR Council, except where required to implement agency-specific executive or statutory direction. Agencies requesting approval must send the proposed class deviation to the FAR Secretariat at <xref href="mailto:GSARegSec@gsa.gov" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">GSARegSec@gsa.gov</xref>.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>  The FAR Council will review and provide a decision to the requesting agency within 5 business days, unless the request is urgent. Urgent requests will be decided within 24 hours of receipt of the request. Agencies may proceed if they do not receive responses within these time frames.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Agencies must email a copy of each agency-approved class deviation to the FAR Secretariat at <xref href="mailto:GSARegSec@gsa.gov" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">GSARegSec@gsa.gov</xref>.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> The Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy may require the FAR Council to issue deviation guidance to promote uniformity . </p></li></ol></conbody></concept></dita>