<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/">
   <concept id="FAR_1_404" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">1.404</ph> Class deviations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Class deviations affect more than one contract action. When an agency knows that it will require a class deviation on a permanent basis, it should propose a FAR revision, if appropriate. Civilian agencies, other than NASA, must furnish a copy of each approved class deviation to the FAR Secretariat.</p>
         <ol id="d40e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d42e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            For civilian agencies except NASA, class deviations may be authorized by agency heads or their designees, unless <xref href="1.405.dita#FAR_1_405"
                        base="i1126671"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">1.405</xref>(e) is applicable. Delegation of this authority shall not be made below the head of a contracting activity. Authorization of class deviations by agency officials is subject to the following limitations:</p>
               <ol id="d40e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d42e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                An agency official who may authorize a class deviation, before doing so, shall consult with the chairperson of the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council (CAA Council), unless that agency official determines that urgency precludes such consultation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d42e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                Recommended revisions to the FAR shall be transmitted to the FAR Secretariat by agency heads or their designees for authorizing class deviations.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d42e31">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						            For DoD, class deviations shall be controlled, processed, and approved in accordance with the Defense FAR Supplement.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d42e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            For NASA, class deviations shall be controlled and approved by the Assistant Administrator for Procurement. Deviations shall be processed in accordance with agency regulations.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
