<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_12_402"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">12.402</ph> Acceptance.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d704e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d731e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The acceptance paragraph in <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref> is based upon
the assumption that the Government will rely on the contractor’s assurances
that the <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">commercial product
or commercial service</ph> tendered for acceptance conforms to the
contract requirements. The Government inspection of <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">commercial products or
commercial services</ph> will not prejudice its other rights under the
acceptance paragraph. Additionally, although the paragraph does
not address the issue of rejection, the Government always has the
right to refuse acceptance of nonconforming items. This paragraph
is generally appropriate when the Government is acquiring noncomplex <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>commercial products or
commercial services.<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend 12.402 by—
a. In paragraph (a):
i. Removing the text “commercial item” and adding “commercial product or commercial service” in its place; and
ii. Removing the text “commercial items” wherever it appears and adding “commercial products or commercial services” in its place;?></ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d731e28" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Other acceptance
procedures may be more appropriate for the acquisition of complex <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>commercial products or
commercial services, or commercial products or commercial services
used<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing from paragraph (b) the phrase “complex commercial items or commercial items used” and adding “complex commercial products or commercial services, or commercial products or commercial services used” in its place; and?></ph> in critical applications. In such cases, the contracting
officer shall include alternative inspection procedure(s) in an
addendum and ensure these procedures and the postaward remedies
adequately protect the interests of the Government. The contracting
officer must carefully examine the terms and conditions of any express
warranty with regard to the effect it may have on the Government’s
available postaward remedies (see <xref href="12.404.dita#FAR_12_404"
                        base="i1113089"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">12.404</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d731e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The acquisition
of <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>commercial products
or commercial services<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Removing from paragraph (c) “commercial items” and adding “commercial products or commercial services” in its place.?></ph> under other circumstances such as on
an "as is" basis may also require acceptance procedures different
from those contained in <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref>.
The contracting officer should consider the effect the specific
circumstances will have on the acceptance paragraph as well as other
paragraphs of the clause.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
