<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_15_101_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">15.101-2</ph> Lowest price technically
acceptable source selection process.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d870e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The lowest price technically acceptable
source selection process is appropriate when best value is expected
to result from selection of the technically acceptable proposal
with the lowest evaluated price.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> When using
the lowest price technically acceptable process, the following apply:</p>
               <ol id="d870e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
evaluation factors and significant subfactors that establish the
requirements of acceptability shall be set forth in the solicitation.
Solicitations shall specify that award will be made on the basis
of the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding
the acceptability standards for non-cost factors. If the contracting
officer documents the file pursuant to <xref href="15.304.dita#FAR_15_304"
                              base="i1108563"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.304</xref>(c)(3)(iii), past
performance need not be an evaluation factor in lowest price technically
acceptable source selections. If the contracting officer elects
to consider past performance as an evaluation factor, it shall be evaluated
in accordance with <xref href="15.305.dita#FAR_15_305"
                              base="i1108601"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.305</xref>.
However, the comparative assessment in <xref href="15.305.dita#FAR_15_305"
                              base="i1108601"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.305</xref>(a)(2)(i) does not
apply. If the contracting officer determines that a small business’
past performance is not acceptable, the matter shall be referred
to the Small Business Administration for a Certificate of Competency
determination, in accordance with the procedures contained in <xref href="Subpart_19.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_6"
                              base="i1100603"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.6</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section637(b)(7)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">15 U.S.C. 637(b)(7)</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Tradeoffs
are not permitted.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e46">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Proposals
are evaluated for acceptability but not ranked using the non-cost/price
factors.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e51">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Exchanges
may occur (see <xref href="15.306.dita#FAR_15_306"
                              base="i1108639"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.306</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  Except for DoD, in accordance
with section 880 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section3701&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">41 U.S.C. 3701</xref> Note),
the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process
shall only be used when—
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e65">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        The agency can comprehensively
and clearly describe the minimum requirements in terms of performance
objectives, measures, and standards that will be used to determine
the acceptability of offers;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e70">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        The agency would realize
no, or minimal, value from a proposal that exceeds the minimum technical
or performance requirements;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e75">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        The agency believes the
technical proposals will require no, or minimal, subjective judgment
by the source selection authority as to the desirability of one
offeror's proposal versus a competing proposal;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e80">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        The agency has a high
degree of confidence that reviewing the technical proposals of all
offerors would not result in the identification of characteristics
that could provide value or benefit to the agency;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e85">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        The agency determined
that the lowest price reflects the total cost, including operation
and support, of the product(s) or service(s) being acquired; and
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e90">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        The contracting officer
documents the contract file describing the circumstances that justify
the use of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection
process.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e95">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  Except for DoD, in accordance
with section 880 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section3701&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">41 U.S.C. 3701</xref> Note),
contracting officers shall avoid, to the maximum extent practicable, using
the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process
in the case of a procurement that is predominantly for the acquisition
of—
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e101">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        Information technology
services, cybersecurity services, systems engineering and technical
assistance services, advanced electronic testing, audit or audit
readiness services, health care services and records, telecommunications devices
and services, or other knowledge-based professional services;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e106">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        Personal protective equipment;
or
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d897e111">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        Knowledge-based training
or logistics services in contingency operations or other operations
outside the United States, including in Afghanistan or Iraq.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
