<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_15_305"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">15.305</ph> Proposal evaluation.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d895e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d923e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            Proposal evaluation is an assessment of the proposal and the offeror’s ability to perform the prospective contract successfully. An agency shall evaluate competitive proposals and then assess their relative qualities solely on the factors and subfactors specified in the solicitation. Evaluations may be conducted using any rating method or combination of methods, including color or adjectival ratings, numerical weights, and ordinal rankings. The relative strengths, deficiencies, significant weaknesses, and risks supporting proposal evaluation shall be documented in the contract file.</p>
               <ol id="d895e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d923e16" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost or price evaluation</i>. Normally, competition establishes price reasonableness. Therefore, when contracting on a firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic price adjustment basis, comparison of the proposed prices will usually satisfy the requirement to perform a price analysis, and a cost analysis need not be performed. In limited situations, a cost analysis may be appropriate to establish reasonableness of the otherwise successful offeror's price (see <xref href="15.403-1.dita#FAR_15_403_1"
                              base="i1105936"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(c)(1)(i)(C)). When contracting on a cost-reimbursement basis, evaluations shall include a cost realism analysis to determine what the Government should realistically expect to pay for the proposed effort, the offeror's understanding of the work, and the offeror's ability to perform the contract. Cost realism analyses may also be used on fixed-price incentive contracts or, in exceptional cases, on other competitive fixed-price-type contracts (see <xref href="15.404-1.dita#FAR_15_404_1"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.404-1</xref>(d)(3)). (See <xref href="37.115.dita#FAR_37_115"
                              base="i1077986"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">37.115</xref> for uncompensated overtime evaluation.) The contracting officer shall document the cost or price evaluation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d923e32" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                Past performance evaluation.</p>
                     <ol id="d895e51" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e38" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
										                    Past performance information is one indicator of an offeror’s ability to perform the contract successfully. The currency and relevance of the information, source of the information, context of the data, and general trends in contractor’s performance shall be considered. This comparative assessment of past performance information is separate from the responsibility determination required under <xref href="Subpart_9.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_9_1"
                                    base="i1116049"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  9.1</xref>.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e46" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
										                    The solicitation shall describe the approach for evaluating past performance, including evaluating offerors with no relevant performance history, and shall provide offerors an opportunity to identify past or current contracts (including Federal, State, and local government and private) for efforts similar to the Government requirement. The solicitation shall also authorize offerors to provide information on problems encountered on the identified contracts and the offeror’s corrective actions. The Government shall consider this information, as well as information obtained from any other sources, when evaluating the offeror’s past performance. The source selection authority shall determine the relevance of similar past performance information.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e51" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
										                    The evaluation should take into account past performance information regarding predecessor companies, key personnel who have relevant experience, or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement when such information is relevant to the instant acquisition.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e56" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                              
										                    In the case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e61" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                              
										                    The evaluation should include the past performance of offerors in complying with subcontracting plan goals for small disadvantaged business (SDB) concerns (see <xref href="Subpart_19.7.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_7"
                                    base="i1100205"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.7</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d923e69" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Technical evaluation</i>. When tradeoffs are performed (see <xref href="15.101-1.dita#FAR_15_101_1"
                              base="i1109257"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.101-1</xref>), the source selection records shall include-</p>
                     <ol id="d895e120" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e80" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
										                    An assessment of each offeror’s ability to accomplish the technical requirements; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d923e85" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
										                    A summary, matrix, or quantitative ranking, along with appropriate supporting narrative, of each technical proposal using the evaluation factors.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d923e90" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost information.</i> Cost information may be provided to members of the technical evaluation team in accordance with agency procedures.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d923e97" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
								                S<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">mall business subcontracting evaluation.</i> Solicitations must be structured to give offers from small business concerns the highest rating for the evaluation factors in <xref href="15.304.dita#FAR_15_304"
                              base="i1108563"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.304</xref>(c)(3)(ii) and (c)(4).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d923e108" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						            The source selection authority may reject all proposals received in response to a solicitation, if doing so is in the best interest of the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d923e113" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            For restrictions on the use of support contractor personnel in proposal evaluation, see <xref href="37.203.dita#FAR_37_203"
                        base="i1077654"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">37.203</xref>(d).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
