<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_17_401" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">17.401</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Leader company contracting is an extraordinary acquisition technique that is limited to special circumstances and utilized only when its use is in accordance with agency procedures. A developer or sole producer of a product or system is designated under this acquisition technique to be the leader company, and to furnish assistance and know-how under an approved contract to one or more designated follower companies, so they can become a source of supply. The objectives of this technique are one or more of the following:</p>
         <ol id="d1061e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Reduce delivery time.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Achieve geographic dispersion of suppliers.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e22">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Maximize the use of scarce tooling or special equipment.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Achieve economies in production.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Ensure uniformity and reliability in equipment, compatibility or standardization of components, and interchangeability of parts.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e37">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            Eliminate problems in the use of proprietary data that cannot be resolved by more satisfactory solutions.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1089e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						            Facilitate the transition from development to production and to subsequent competitive acquisition of end items or major components.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
