<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_102" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.102</ph> Small business size
standards and North American Industry Classification System codes.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1128e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Locating size standards and
North American Industry Classification System codes.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1128e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e17">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> SBA establishes small business size standards on an industry-by-industry basis. Small business size standards and corresponding North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes are provided at <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2024-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2024-title13-vol1-sec121-201.xml"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 121.201</xref>. They are also available at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                           <xref href="https://www.sba.gov/document/support--table-size-standards"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sba.gov/​document/​support--table-size-standards</xref>
                        </i>. </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e28">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         NAICS codes
are updated by the Office of Management and Budget through its Economic
Classification Policy Committee every five years. New NAICS codes
are not available for use in Federal contracting until SBA publishes corresponding
size standards. NAICS codes are available from the U.S. Census Bureau
at 
                           <xref href="https://www.census.gov/naics/"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">https://www.census.gov/naics/</xref>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        SBA determines the size status of a concern, including its affiliates, as of the date the concern represents that it is small to the contracting officer as part of its initial offer, which includes price.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        When an agency uses a solicitation for a multiple-award contract that does not require offers for the contract to include price, SBA determines size as of the date of initial offer for the multiple-award contract, whether or not the offer includes price or the price is evaluated. (See <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-121.404#p-121.404(a)(1)(iv)"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 121.404(a)(1)(iv)</xref>).
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Determining
the appropriate NAICS codes for the solicitation.</i>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e43">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Unless required
to do otherwise by paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, contracting
officers shall assign one NAICS code and corresponding size standard
to all solicitations, contracts, and task and delivery orders. The
contracting officer shall determine the appropriate NAICS code by
classifying the product or service being acquired in the one industry
that best describes the principal purpose of the supply or service
being acquired. Primary consideration is given to the industry descriptions
in the U.S. NAICS Manual, the product or service descriptions in
the solicitation, the relative value and importance of the components
of the requirement making up the end item being procured, and the
function of the goods or services being purchased. A procurement
is usually classified according to the component that accounts for
the greatest percentage of contract value.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e53">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> For solicitations issued on or before October 1, 2028, that will result in multiple-award contracts, the contracting officer shall assign a NAICS code in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e58">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> For solicitations issued after October 1, 2028, that will result in multiple-award contracts, the contracting officer shall–</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e64">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                     Assign a single NAICS code (and
corresponding size standard) that best describes the principal purpose
of both the acquisition and each subsequent order; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e69">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                     Divide
the acquisition into distinct portions or categories (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
line item numbers, Special Item Numbers, sectors, functional areas,
or equivalent) and assign each portion or category a single NAICS
code and size standard that best describes the principal purpose
of the supplies or services to be acquired under that distinct portion or
category.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e77">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e82">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               When placing
orders under multiple-award contracts with a single NAICS code,
the contracting officer shall assign the order the same NAICS code
and corresponding size standard designated in the contract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e87">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               When placing
orders under multiple-award contracts with more than one NAICS code,
the contracting officer shall assign the order the NAICS code and
corresponding size standard designated in the contract for the distinct portion
or category against which the order is placed. If an order covers
multiple portions or categories, select the NAICS code and corresponding
size standard designated in the contract for the distinct portion
or category that best represents the principal purpose of the order.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e92">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         The contracting
officer's designation is final unless appealed in accordance with
the procedures in <xref href="19.103.dita#FAR_19_103"
                              base="id2034C060YX5"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.103</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e100">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Application
of small business size standards to solicitations.</i>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e107">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The contracting
officer shall apply the size standard in effect on the date the
solicitation is issued.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1156e112">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The contracting
officer may amend the solicitation and use the new size standard
if SBA amends the size standard and it becomes effective before
the due date for receipt of initial offers.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
