<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_307">
      <title>
         <ph props="autonumber">19.307</ph> Protesting a firm’s	status as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.</title>
      <conbody>
         <ol id="d1149e13">
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e10"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
						            [Reserved]</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p id="d1178e15"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d1149e35">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e20"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
								                For	sole source acquisitions, the contracting officer or SBA may protest	the apparently successful offeror’s service-disabled veteran-owned	small business status. For all other acquisitions, any interested	party may protest the apparently successful offeror’s service-disabled	veteran-owned small business status.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e25"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                SBA’s protest	regulations are found in subpart D "Protests" at <ph outputclass="CFR">13	CFR 125.24</ph> through 125.28.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e33"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
						            Protests	relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures	of <xref href="19.302.dita#FAR_19_302" base="i19_302" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.302</xref>. An interested	party seeking to protest both the small business size and service-disabled	veteran-owned small business status of an apparent successful offeror	shall file two separate protests.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e41"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
						            All protests	must be in writing and must state all specific grounds for the protest.</p>
               <ol id="d1149e74">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e47"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                          SBA will consider protests challenging the <ph rev="FAC 2023-02 March 16, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-008?>service-disabled<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.307 by—   a. Removing from paragraph (d)(1) introductory text the phrase “service disabled” and adding “service-disabled” in its place;?></ph> veteran-owned status or the ownership and control of a concern if-</p>
                     <ol id="d1149e84">
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e53"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                For status protests, the protester presents evidence supporting the contention that the owner(s) cannot provide documentation from the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense determinations, or the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration to show that they meet the definition of "service-disabled veteran" or "service disabled veteran with a permanent and <ph rev="FAC 2023-02 March 16, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-008?>severe-disability" as set forth in 13 CFR 125.12;<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing from paragraph (d)(1)(i) the phrases “service disabled” and “125.8; or” and adding “service-disabled” and “125.12;” in their places, respectively;?></ph> or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e61"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>  For ownership and control protests, the protester presents evidence that the concern is not 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans. In the case of a veteran with a permanent and severe disability, the protester presents evidence that the concern is not controlled by the veteran, spouse, or permanent caregiver of <ph rev="FAC 2023-02 March 16, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-008?>such veteran; or<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Removing from paragraph (d)(1)(ii) the phrase “such veteran.” and adding “such veteran; or” in its place; and?></ph></p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p
                              id="19-307_d-1-iii"><ph
                              props="autonumber"
                              class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> <ph
                              rev="FAC 2023-02 March 16, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-008?>For set-aside or sole-source service contract or order ostensible subcontractor protests, the protester presents credible evidence of the alleged undue reliance on a small entity subcontractor that is not a similarly-situated entity as defined in <xref
                              href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.1"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">13 CFR 125.1</xref>, or credible evidence that the small non-similarly situated entity is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract. For allegations that the prime contractor is unduly reliant on an other-than-small subcontractor, see size protests at <xref
                              href="19.302.dita#FAR_19_302"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.302</xref>, and <xref
                              href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-121.103#p-121.103(h)(2)"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">13 CFR 121.103(h)(2)</xref>, which treats the pair as joint venturers for size determination purposes (the “ostensible subcontractor rule”).<?FM MARKER [Why] d. Adding paragraph (d)(1)(iii).?></ph></p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e66"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                Assertions	that a protested concern is not a service-disabled veteran-owned	small business concern, without setting forth specific facts or	allegations, will not be considered by SBA (see <ph outputclass="CFR">13	CFR 125.25(b)</ph>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p id="d1178e74"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  <i>Protest	by an interested party.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1149e125">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e81"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
								                An offeror	shall submit its protest to the contracting officer—</p>
                     <ol id="d1149e135">
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e87"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    To	be received by close of business on the fifth business day after	bid opening (in sealed bid acquisitions); or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e92"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    To be	received by close of business on the fifth business day after notification	by the contracting officer of the apparently successful offeror	for negotiated acquisitions).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e97"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                Any protest	received after the designated time limits is untimely, unless it	is from the contracting officer or SBA.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p id="d1178e102"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d1149e177">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e107"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
								                The	contracting officer shall forward all protests to SBA. The protests	are to be submitted to SBA’s Director, Office of Government Contracting,	U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW, Washington,	DC 20416 or by fax to 202-205-6390, Attn: Service-Disabled Veteran	Status Protest.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e112"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                The protest	shall include a referral letter written by the contracting officer	with information pertaining to the solicitation. The referral letter	must include the following information to allow SBA to determine	timeliness and standing:</p>
                     <ol id="d1149e196">
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e118"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The solicitation number (or an	electronic link to or a paper copy of the solicitation).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e123"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The name,	address, telephone number, fax number, and email address of the	contracting officer.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e128"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Whether	the contract was sole-source or set-aside.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e133"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Whether	the protestor submitted an offer.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e138"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Whether	the protested concern was the apparent successful offeror.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e143"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    When	the protested concern submitted its offer.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e148"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Whether	the acquisition was conducted using sealed bid or negotiated procedures.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e153"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The	bid opening date, if applicable.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e158"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The date	the contracting officer received the protest.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e163"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(x)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The date	the protestor received notification about the apparent successful	offeror, if applicable.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e168"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xi)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Whether	a contract has been awarded.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e173"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  
                  
						            SBA will	notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA	received the protest.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p id="d1178e178"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  
                  <i>Before	SBA decision.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1149e319">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e185"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
								                After receiving a protest involving	the apparent successful offeror's status as a service-disabled veteran-owned	small business concern, the contracting officer shall either-</p>
                     <ol id="d1149e329">
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e191"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Withhold	award of the contract until SBA determines the status of the protested	concern; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e196"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    Award	the contract after receipt of the protest but before SBA issues	its decision if the contracting officer determines in writing that	an award must be made to protect the public interest.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e201"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                SBA will	determine the merits of the status protest within 15 business days	after receipt of a protest, or within any extension of time granted	by the contracting officer.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e206"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
								                If SBA	does not issue its determination within 15 business days, or within	any extension of time that is granted, the contracting officer may	award the contract after determining in writing that there is an	immediate need to award the contract and that waiting until SBA	makes its determination will be disadvantageous to the government.	This determination shall be provided to the SBA's Director, Office	of Government Contracting and a copy shall be included in the contract	file.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e211"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                  
                  <i>After	SBA decision</i>. SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protester,	and the protested concern of its determination. The determination	is effective immediately and is final unless overturned on appeal	by SBA’s Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) pursuant to <ph outputclass="CFR">13 CFR part 134</ph>.</p>
               <ol id="d1149e382">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e222"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
								                If the	contracting officer has withheld contract award and SBA has determined	that the protested concern is an eligible SDVOSB or dismissed all	protests against the protested concern, the contracting officer	may award the contract to the protested concern. If OHA subsequently	overturns the SBA Director for Government Contracting’s determination or	dismissal, the contracting officer may apply the OHA decision to	the procurement in question.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e227"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                If the	contracting officer has withheld contract award, SBA has sustained	the protest and determined that the concern is not an SDVOSB, and	no OHA appeal has been filed, then the contracting officer shall	not award the contract to the protested concern.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e232"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
								                If the	contracting officer has made a written determination in accordance	with (h)(1)(ii) or (h)(3) of this section, the contract has been	awarded, and SBA’s ruling sustaining the protest is received after	award-</p>
                     <ol id="d1149e410">
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e238"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The contracting officer shall	terminate the contract, unless the contracting officer has made	a written determination that termination is not in the best interests	of the Government. However, the contracting officer shall not exercise	any options or award further task or delivery orders;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e243"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The contracting	officer shall update the FPDS to reflect the final SBA decision;	and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e248"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The	concern must remove its designation in the System for Award Management	(SAM) as a SDVOSB concern, and shall not submit an offer as a SDVOSB	concern, until SBA issues a decision that the ineligibility is resolved.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e253"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        
								                If the	contracting officer has made a written determination in accordance	with (h)(1)(ii) or (h)(3) of this section and awarded the contract	to the protested firm, SBA has sustained the protest and determined	that the concern is not a SDVOSB, and a timely OHA appeal has been	filed, then the contracting officer shall consider whether performance can	be suspended until an OHA decision is rendered.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e258"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        
								                If OHA	affirms the SBA Director for Government Contracting’s determination	finding the protested concern is ineligible-</p>
                     <ol id="d1149e458">
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e264"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The contracting	officer shall terminate the contract unless the contracting officer	has made a written determination that it is not in the best interest	of the Government. However, the contracting officer shall not exercise	any options or award further task or delivery orders;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e269"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The contracting	officer shall update the FPDS to reflect OHA’s decision; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p id="d1178e274"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                              
										                    The	concern shall remove its designation in SAM as a SDVOSB concern,	until SBA issues a decision that the ineligibility is resolved or	OHA finds the concern is eligible on appeal.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e279"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        
                        
								                A concern	found to be ineligible may not submit future offers as an SDVOSB	concern until the concern demonstrates to SBA’s satisfaction that	it has overcome the reason for the protest and SBA issues a decision	to this effect.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e284"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
                  
                  <i>Appeals	of SDVOSB status determinations</i>. The protested SDVOSB small	business concern, the protester, or the contracting officer may	file appeals of protest determinations to OHA. OHA must receive	the appeal no later than 10 business days after the date of receipt	of the protest determination. SBA will dismiss an untimely appeal.	See Subpart E "Rules of Practice for Appeals From Service-Disabled	Veteran Owned Small Business Concerns Protests" at <ph outputclass="CFR">13 CFR 134.501</ph> through 134.515 for	SBA’s appeals regulations.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e294"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(k)</ph>
                  
                  <i>The	appeal must be in writing</i>. The appeal must identify the protest	determination being appealed and must set forth a full and specific	statement as to why the SDVOSB protest determination is alleged	to be based on a clear error of fact or law, together with an argument	supporting such allegation.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p id="d1178e302"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(l)</ph>
                  
                  
						            The party	appealing the decision must provide notice of the appeal to-</p>
               <ol id="d1149e534">
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e308"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
								                The	contracting officer;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e313"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
								                Director,	Office of Government Contracting, U.S. Small Business Administration,	409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile 202-205-6390;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e318"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
								                The protested	SDVOSB concern or the original protester, as appropriate; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p id="d1178e323"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        
								                Associate	General Counsel for Procurement Law, U.S. Small Business Administration,	409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile 202-205-6873,	or e-mail at <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3" format="html" scope="external">OPLService@sba.gov</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li id="i1101370">
               <p id="d1178e331"><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(m)</ph>
                  
                  
						            OHA	will make its decision within 15 business days of the receipt of	the appeal, if practicable. SBA will provide a copy of the decision	to the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested SDVOSB	small business concern. The OHA decision regarding the status of	the concern is final and is binding on the parties.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>