<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_502_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.502-2</ph> Total small business	set-asides.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1160e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1189e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Before setting aside an acquisition	under this paragraph, refer to <xref href="19.203.dita#FAR_19_203"
                        base="i1101696"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.203</xref>(b). Each acquisition of supplies	or services that has an anticipated dollar value above the micro-purchase	threshold, but not over the simplified acquisition threshold, shall be	set aside for small business unless the contracting officer determines	there is not a reasonable expectation of obtaining offers from two	or more responsible small business concerns that are competitive	in terms of fair market prices, quality, and delivery. If the	contracting officer receives only one acceptable offer from a responsible	small business concern in response to a set-aside, the contracting	officer should make an award to that firm. If the contracting officer	receives no acceptable offers from responsible small business concerns,	the set-aside shall be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid,	shall be resolicited on an unrestricted basis. The small business	set-aside does not preclude the award of a contract as described	in <xref href="19.203.dita#FAR_19_203"
                        base="i1101696"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.203</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1189e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Before	setting aside an acquisition under this paragraph, refer to <xref href="19.203.dita#FAR_19_203"
                        base="i1101696"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.203</xref>(c). The contracting	officer shall set aside any acquisition over the simplified acquisition	threshold for small business participation when there is a	reasonable expectation that-</p>
               <ol id="d1160e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1189e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Offers will	be obtained from at least two responsible small business concerns;	and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1189e35">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Award will	be made at fair market prices. Total small business set-asides shall	not be made unless such a reasonable expectation exists (see <xref href="19.502-3.dita#FAR_19_502_3"
                              base="i1100796"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.502-3</xref> for partial set-asides).	Although past acquisition history and market research of an item or	similar items are always important, these are not the only factors	to be considered in determining whether a reasonable expectation	exists. In making research and development small business set-asides,	there must also be a reasonable expectation of obtaining from small	businesses the best scientific and technological sources consistent	with the demands of the proposed acquisition for the best mix of	cost, performances, and schedules.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1189e42"> </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
