<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_19_501"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.501</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1157e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1186e15" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                 The purpose of small business set-asides is to award certain acquisitions exclusively to small business concerns. A "set-aside for small business" is the limiting of an acquisition exclusively for participation by small business concerns. A small business set-aside may be open to any of the small business concerns identified at <xref href="19.000.dita#FAR_19_000"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.000</xref>(a)(3). A small business set-aside of a single acquisition or a class of acquisitions may be total or partial.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1186e23" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                 The purpose of small business reserves is to award one or more multiple-award contracts to any of the small business concerns identified at <xref href="19.000.dita#FAR_19_000"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.000</xref>(a)(3), under a full and open competition. A small business reserve shall not be used when the acquisition can be set aside, in total or in part.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						             The contracting officer makes the determination to make a small business set-aside, in total or in part, or a reserve. The Small Business Administration (SBA) procurement center representative (PCR) (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)) may make a recommendation to the contracting officer.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e39" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						             The contracting officer shall review acquisitions to determine if they can be set aside, in total or in part, or reserved for small business, giving consideration to the recommendations of agency personnel in the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, or for the Department of Defense, in the Office of Small Business Programs. Agencies may establish threshold levels for this review depending upon their needs.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e44" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						             At the request of an SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)), the contracting officer shall make available for review at the contracting office (to the extent of the SBA representative's security clearance) all proposed acquisitions in excess of the micro-purchase threshold that have not been unilaterally set aside for small business.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e52" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						             All solicitations involving set-asides, in total or in part, or reserves shall specify the NAICS code(s) and corresponding size standard(s) (see <xref href="19.102.dita#FAR_19_102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.102</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e60" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						             Except as authorized by law, a contract may not be awarded as a result of a small business set-aside if the cost to the awarding agency exceeds the fair market price.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1186e65" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						             For the applicability of the limitations on subcontracting and the nonmanufacturer rule, see <xref href="19.505.dita#FAR_19_505"
                        base="id203CGK00TBF"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.505</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
