<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_502_8" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.502-8</ph> Rejecting Small Business
Administration recommendations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1167e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> If the contracting officer rejects
a recommendation of the SBA, written notice shall be furnished to
the appropriate SBA representative within 5 working days of the
contracting officer's receipt of the recommendation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not
                  assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)) may appeal the
                  contracting officer's rejection to the head of the contracting
                  activity within 2 working days after receiving the notice
                  (except see <xref href="19.1305.dita#FAR_19_1305"
                        base="i1101585"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.1305</xref>(d), 
                     <xref href="19.1405.dita#FAR_19_1405"
                        base="i1101585"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.1405</xref>(e),
                  and <xref href="19.1505.dita#FAR_19_1505"
                        base="i1101585"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.1505</xref>(i)). The head of the
                  contracting activity  shall render a decision in writing, and
                  provide it to the SBA representative within 7 working days.
                  Pending issuance of a decision to the SBA representative, the
                  contracting officer shall suspend action on the
                  acquisition.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> If the
head of the contracting activity agrees that the contracting officer’s
rejection was appropriate-</p>
               <ol id="d1167e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Within 2 working days, the SBA
procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative
is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                              base="i1101041"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a))
may request the contracting officer to suspend action on the acquisition
until the SBA Administrator appeals to the agency head (see paragraph
(f) of this section); and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e46">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The SBA
must be allowed 15 working days after making such a written request,
within which the Administrator of SBA–</p>
                     <ol id="d1167e69" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e52">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> May appeal
to the Secretary of the Department concerned; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e57">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Must notify
the contracting officer whether the further appeal has, in fact,
been taken. If notification is not received by the contracting officer
within the 15-day period, it is deemed that the SBA request to suspend
the contract action has been withdrawn and that an appeal to the
Secretary was not taken.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> When the
contracting officer has been notified within the 15-day period that
the SBA has appealed to the agency head, the head of the contracting
activity (or designee) shall forward justification for its decision
to the agency head. The contracting officer shall suspend contract
action until notification is received that the SBA appeal has been
settled.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e67">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> The agency
head shall reply to the SBA within 30 working days after receiving
the appeal. The decision of the agency head shall be final.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1195e72">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> A request
to suspend action on an acquisition need not be honored if the contracting
officer determines that proceeding to contract award and performance
is in the public interest. The contracting officer shall include
in the contract file a statement of the facts justifying the determination,
and shall promptly notify the SBA representative of the determination
and provide a copy of the justification.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
