<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_602_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.602-2</ph> Issuing or denying a Certificate of Competency (COC).</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Within 15 business days (or a longer period agreed to by the SBA and the contracting agency) after receiving a notice that a small business concern lacks certain elements of responsibility, the SBA Area Office will take the following actions:</p>
         <ol id="d1175e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Inform the small business concern of the contracting officer’s determination and offer it an opportunity to apply to the SBA for a COC. (A concern wishing to apply for a COC should notify the SBA Area Office serving the geographical area in which the headquarters of the offeror is located.)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Upon timely receipt of a complete and acceptable application, elect to visit the applicant’s facility to review its responsibility.</p>
               <ol id="d1175e35" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The COC review process is not limited to the areas of nonresponsibility cited by the contracting officer.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e28">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The SBA may, at its discretion, independently evaluate the COC applicant for all elements of responsibility, but may presume responsibility exists as to elements other than those cited as deficient.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Consider denying a COC for reasons of nonresponsibility not originally cited by the contracting officer.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e38">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            When the Area Director determines that a COC is warranted (for contracts valued at $25,000,000 or less), notify the contracting officer and provide the following options:</p>
               <ol id="d1175e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Accept the Area Director’s decision to issue a COC and award the contract to the concern. The COC issuance letter will then be sent, including as an attachment a detailed rationale for the decision; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Ask the Area Director to suspend the case for one or more of the following purposes:</p>
                     <ol id="d1175e93" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e55">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    To permit the SBA to forward a detailed rationale for the decision to the contracting officer for review within a specified period of time.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e60">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    To afford the contracting officer the opportunity to meet with the Area Office to review all documentation contained in the case file and to attempt to resolve any issues.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e65">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    To submit any information to the SBA Area Office that the contracting officer believes the SBA did not consider (at which time, the SBA Area Office will establish a new suspense date mutually agreeable to the contracting officer and the SBA).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e70">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    To permit resolution of an appeal by the contracting agency to SBA Headquarters under <xref href="19.602-3.dita#FAR_19_602_3"
                                    base="i1100669"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">19.602-3</xref>. However, there is no contracting officer’s appeal when the Area Office proposes to issue a COC valued at $100,000 or less.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e78">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            At the completion of the process, notify the concern and the contracting officer that the COC is denied or is being issued.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1207e83">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            Refer recommendations for issuing a COC on contracts greater than $25,000,000 to SBA Headquarters.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
