<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_19_601"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.601</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1172e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1204e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            A Certificate of Competency (COC) is the certificate issued by the Small Business Administration (SBA) stating that the holder is responsible (with respect to all elements of responsibility, including, but not limited to, capability, competency, capacity, credit, integrity, perseverance, tenacity, and limitations on subcontracting) for the purpose of receiving and performing a specific Government contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1204e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The COC program empowers the <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 November 6, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-012?>SBA<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.601 by—   a. Removing from paragraph (b) the phrase “Small Business Administration (SBA)” and adding “SBA” in its place; and?></ph> to certify to Government contracting officers as to all elements of responsibility of any small business concern to receive and perform a specific Government contract. The COC program does not extend to questions concerning regulatory requirements imposed and enforced by other Federal agencies.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1204e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The COC program is applicable to all <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 November 6, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-012?>Government acquisitions except for 8(a) sole-source awards<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing from the first sentence of paragraph (c) the phrase “Government acquisitions” and adding “Government acquisitions except for 8(a) sole-source awards” in its place and removing from the second sentence of paragraph (c) the word “also”.?></ph>. A contracting officer shall, upon determining an apparent successful small business offeror to be nonresponsible, refer that small business to the SBA for a possible COC, even if the next acceptable offer is also from a small business.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1204e25">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            When a solicitation requires a small business to adhere to the limitations on subcontracting, a contracting officer’s finding that a small business cannot comply with the limitation shall be treated as an element of responsibility and shall be subject to the COC process. When a solicitation requires a small business to adhere to the definition of a nonmanufacturer, a contracting officer’s determination that the small business does not comply shall be processed in accordance with <xref href="Subpart_19.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_3"
                        base="i1101116"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.3</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1204e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Contracting officers, including those located overseas, are required to comply with this subpart for U.S. small business concerns.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1204e38">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            For the purpose of receiving a COC on an unrestricted acquisition, a small business nonmanufacturer may furnish any end item produced or manufactured in the United States or its outlying areas.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
