<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_19_702"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.702</ph> Statutory requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Any contractor receiving a contract with a value greater than the simplified acquisition threshold must agree in the contract that small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns will have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in contract performance consistent with its efficient performance. It is further the policy of the United States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of their subcontracts with small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns.</p>
         <ol id="d1180e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1212e12" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1180e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1212e17" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                 Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2018-title15/html/USCODE-2018-title15-chap14A-sec637.htm"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(</xref> d)) imposes the following requirements regarding subcontracting with small businesses and small business subcontracting plans:</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1212e26" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                     In negotiated acquisitions, each solicitation of offers to perform a contract that is expected to exceed 
											$750,000
										 ($1.5 million for construction) and that has subcontracting possibilities, shall require the apparently successful offeror to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan. If the apparently successful offeror fails to negotiate a subcontracting plan acceptable to the contracting officer within the time limit prescribed by the contracting officer, the offeror will be ineligible for award. For a multiple-award contract with more than one North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code, see paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1212e31" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                     In sealed bidding acquisitions, each invitation for bids to perform a contract that is expected to exceed 
											$750,000
										 ($1.5 million for construction) and that has subcontracting possibilities, shall require the bidder selected for award to submit a subcontracting plan. If the selected bidder fails to submit a plan within the time limit prescribed by the contracting officer, the bidder will be ineligible for award. For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, see paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1212e36" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                     Each contract modification that causes the value of a contract without a subcontracting plan to exceed 
											$750,000
										 ($1.5 million for construction), shall require the contractor to submit a subcontracting plan for the contract, if the contracting officer determines that subcontracting opportunities exist. For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, see paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1212e41" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1212e46" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                     For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, the solicitation referenced in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section shall require the apparently successful offeror to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan for either the distinct portion(s) or category(ies) of their proposal for which the offeror is other than small or for the entirety of their proposal, at the offeror's discretion. When determining the need for a subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall consider the cumulative dollar value of the portion(s) or category(ies) of the offeror's proposal for which the offeror is other than small.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1212e51" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                     For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, the modification referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall require the contractor to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan for either the distinct portion(s) or category(ies) of the contract for which the contractor is other than small or for the entirety of their contract, at the contractor's discretion. When determining the need for a subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall consider the cumulative dollar value of the portion(s) or category(ies) of the contract for which the contractor is other than small.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1212e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						             Subcontracting plans (see paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section) are not required–</p>
               <ol id="d1180e68" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1212e62" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                 From small business concerns;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1212e67" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                 For personal services contracts;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1212e72" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                 For contracts or contract modifications that will be performed entirely outside of the United States and its outlying areas; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1212e77" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                 For modifications that are within the scope of the contract and the contract does not contain the clause at <xref href="52.219-8.dita#FAR_52_219_8"
                              base="i1057444"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-8</xref>, Utilization of Small Business Concerns.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1212e85" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						             As stated in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(9)</xref>, any contractor or subcontractor failing to comply in good faith with the requirements of the subcontracting plan is in material breach of its contract. Further, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)</xref> directs that a contractor’s failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the requirements of the subcontracting plan shall result in the imposition of liquidated damages.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1212e96" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						             As authorized by <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(12)</xref>, certain costs incurred by a mentor firm in providing developmental assistance to a protégé firm under the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protégé Program, may be credited as if they were subcontract awards to a protégé firm for the purpose of determining whether the mentor firm attains the applicable goals under any subcontracting plan entered into with any executive agency. However, the mentor-protégé agreement must have been approved by the Director, Small Business Programs of the cognizant DoD military department or defense agency, before developmental assistance costs may be credited against subcontract goals. A list of approved agreements may be obtained at <xref href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/osbp/mentor_protege/"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.acq.osd.mil/osbp/mentor_protege/</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
