<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_19_705_6"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.705-6</ph> Postaward responsibilities of the contracting officer.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">After a contract or contract modification containing a subcontracting plan is awarded or an existing subcontracting plan is amended, the contracting officer shall do the following:</p>
         <ol id="d1189e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e12" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Notify the SBA of the award by sending a copy of the award document to the Area Director, Office of Government Contracting, in the SBA area office where the contract will be performed.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Forward a copy of each commercial plan and any associated approvals to the Area Director, Office of Government Contracting, in the SBA area office where the contractor’s headquarters is located.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e22" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Give to the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)) a copy of-</p>
               <ol id="d1189e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e31" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Any subcontracting plan submitted in response to a sealed bid solicitation; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The final negotiated subcontracting plan that was incorporated into a negotiated contract or contract modification.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Notify the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)) of the opportunity to review subcontracting plans in connection with contract modifications.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e49" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Forward a copy of each plan, or a determination that there is no requirement for a subcontracting plan, to the cognizant contract administration office.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e54" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            Monitor the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan, to include the following:</p>
               <ol id="d1189e99" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Ensure that subcontracting reports are submitted into the eSRS within 30 days after the report ending date (e.g., by October 30 th for the fiscal year ended September 30 th).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e65" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Review ISRs, and where applicable, SSRs, in eSRS within 60 days of the report ending date (e.g., by November 30 th for a report submitted for the fiscal year ended September 30 th).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e70" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Either acknowledge receipt of or reject the reports in accordance with <xref href="Subpart_19.7.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_7"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.7</xref>, <xref href="52.219-9.dita#FAR_52_219_9"
                              base="i1057444"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-9</xref>, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, and the eSRS instructions (<xref href="http://www.esrs.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">www.esrs.gov</xref>).</p>
                     <ol id="d1189e136" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1221e85" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the contracting officer who approved the commercial plan.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1221e90" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    If a report is rejected, the contracting officer must provide an explanation for the rejection to allow the prime contractor the opportunity to respond specifically to identified deficiencies.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e95" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						            Evaluate the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan, to include the following:</p>
               <ol id="d1189e168" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e101" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Assess whether the prime contractor made a good faith effort to comply with its small business subcontracting plan (see <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 125.3(d)(3)</ph>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1221e109" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Assess the prime contractor's written explanation concerning the prime contractor's failure to use a small business concern in the performance of the contract in the same scope, amount, and quality used in preparing and submitting the bid or proposal, if applicable.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e114" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
						            Initiate action to assess liquidated damages in accordance with <xref href="19.705-7.dita#FAR_19_705_7"
                        base="i1100447"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.705-7</xref> upon a recommendation by the administrative contracting officer or receipt of other reliable evidence to indicate that such action is warranted.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e122" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
						            Take action to enforce the terms of the contract upon receipt of a notice under <xref href="19.706.dita#FAR_19_706"
                        base="i1100468"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.706</xref>(f).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1221e130" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
						            Acknowledge receipt of or reject the ISR and the SSR in the eSRS. Acknowledging receipt does not mean acceptance or approval of the report. The report shall be rejected if it is not adequately completed, for instance, if there are errors, omissions, or incomplete data. Failure to meet the goals of the subcontracting plan is not a valid reason for rejecting the report.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
