<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_19_705_7"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.705-7</ph> Compliance
with the subcontracting plan.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1190e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1222e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General.</i>
                  </ph> Maximum
practicable utilization of small business, veteran-owned small business,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?>small disadvantaged business,<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.705-7 by—
a. Revising the section heading;
b. In paragraph (a)—
i. Adding a paragraph heading;
ii. Removing the phrase “small disadvantaged business” and adding the phrase “small disadvantaged business,” in its place;?></ph> and
women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors in Government
contracts is a matter of national interest with both social and
economic benefits. When a contractor fails to make a good faith
effort to comply with a subcontracting plan, these objectives are
not achieved, and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C.637(d)(4)(F)</xref> directs
that liquidated damages shall be paid by the contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1222e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Determination
of good faith effort.</i>
               </p>
               <ol rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?>In determining whether
a contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its
subcontracting plan, a contracting officer must look to the totality
of the contractor's actions, consistent with the information and
assurances provided in its plan. The fact that the contractor failed
to meet its subcontracting goals does not, in and of itself, constitute
a failure to make a good faith effort (see <xref href="19.701.dita#FAR_19_701"
                                 base="i1057444"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">19.701</xref>). For example,
notwithstanding a contractor's diligent effort to identify and solicit
offers from any of the small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged
business, and women-owned small business concerns, factors such
as unavailability of anticipated sources or unreasonable prices
may frustrate achievement of the contractor's subcontracting goals.
The contracting officer may consider any of the following, though
not all inclusive, to be indicators of a good faith effort:<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Revising paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e);?></ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e45" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>Breaking out work to be subcontracted
into economically feasible units, as appropriate, to facilitate
small business participation.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e50" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>Conducting market research to
identify potential small business subcontractors through all reasonable
means, such as searching SAM, posting notices or solicitations on
SBA's SUBNet, participating in business matchmaking events, and
attending preproposal conferences.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e55" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>Soliciting small business concerns
as early in the acquisition process as practicable to allow them
sufficient time to submit a timely offer for the subcontract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e60" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>Providing interested small businesses
with adequate and timely information about plans, specifications,
and requirements for performance of the prime contract to assist
them in submitting a timely offer for the subcontract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e65" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>Negotiating in good faith with
interested small businesses.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e70" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>Directing small businesses that
need additional assistance to SBA.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e75" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>Assisting interested small businesses
in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, required insurance, necessary equipment,
supplies, materials, or services.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e80" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>Utilizing the available services
of small business associations; local, state, and Federal small
business assistance offices; and other organizations.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e85" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>Participating in a formal mentor-protégé
program with one or more small business protégés that results in
developmental assistance to the protégés.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e90" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(x)</ph>Although failing to meet the subcontracting
goal in one socioeconomic category, exceeding the goal by an equal or
greater amount in one or more of the other categories.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e95" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xi)</ph>Fulfilling all of the requirements
of the subcontracting plan.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e100" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>When considered
in the context of the contractor's total effort in accordance with
its plan, the contracting officer may consider any of the following,
though not all inclusive, to be indicators of a failure to make
a good faith effort:</p>
                     <ol rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e106" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>Failure to
attempt through market research to identify, contact, solicit, or
consider for contract award small business, veteran-owned small
business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small
business concerns, through all reasonable means including outreach,
industry days, or the use of Federal systems such as SBA's Dynamic
Small Business Search or SUBNet systems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e111" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>Failure
to designate and maintain a company official to administer the subcontracting
program and monitor and enforce compliance with the plan.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e116" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>Failure
to submit an acceptable ISR, or the SSR, using the eSRS, or as provided
in agency regulations, by the report due dates specified in <xref href="52.219-9.dita#FAR_52_219_9"
                                    base="i1057444"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.219-9</xref>, Small Business
Subcontracting Plan.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e124" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>Failure
to maintain records or otherwise demonstrate procedures adopted
to comply with the plan including subcontracting flowdown requirements.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e129" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>Adoption
of company policies or documented procedures that have as their
objectives the frustration of the objectives of the plan.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e134" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>Failure
to pay small business subcontractors in accordance with the terms
of the contract with the prime contractor.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e139" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>Failure
to correct substantiated findings from Federal subcontracting compliance
reviews or participate in subcontracting plan management training
offered by the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e144" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>Failure
to provide the contracting officer with a written explanation if
the contractor fails to acquire articles, equipment, supplies, services,
or materials or obtain the performance of construction work as described
in <xref href="19.704.dita#FAR_19_704"
                                    base="i1057444"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">19.704</xref>(a)(12).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e152" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>Falsifying
records of subcontract awards to small business concerns.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1222e157" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?> 
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Documentation of
good faith effort.</i> If, at completion of the basic contract or
any option, or in the case of a commercial plan, at the close of
the fiscal year for which the plan is applicable, a contractor has
failed to comply with the requirements of its subcontracting plan,
which includes meeting its subcontracting goals, the contracting
officer shall review all available information for an indication
that the contractor has not made a good faith effort to comply with
the plan. If no such indication is found, the contracting officer
shall document the file accordingly.<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Revising paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e);?></ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1222e167" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?> 
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notice of failure
to make a good faith effort.</i> If the contracting officer decides
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section that the contractor
failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting
plan, the contracting officer shall give the contractor written
notice in accordance with <xref href="52.219-16.dita#FAR_52_219_16"
                           base="i1057444"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">52.219-16</xref>,
Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan, specifying the material
breach, which may be included in the contractor's past performance
information, advising the contractor of the possibility that the
contractor may have to pay to the Government liquidated damages,
and providing a period of 15 working days (or longer period as necessary)
within which to respond. The notice shall give the contractor an
opportunity to demonstrate what good faith efforts have been made
before the contracting officer issues the final decision and shall
further state that failure of the contractor to respond may be taken
as an admission that no valid explanation exists.<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Revising paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e);?></ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1222e180" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Payment
of liquidated damages.</i>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e187" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?>If, after consideration
of all the pertinent data, the contracting officer finds that the
contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its
subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall issue a final
decision to the contractor to that effect and require the payment
of liquidated damages in an amount stated. The contracting officer's
final decision shall state that the contractor has the right to
appeal under the clause in the contract entitled Disputes. Calculations
and procedures shall be in accordance with <xref href="52.219-16.dita#FAR_52_219_16"
                                 base="i1057444"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">52.219-16</xref>, Liquidated
Damages—Subcontracting Plan.<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Revising paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e);?></ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e198" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>The amount of damages attributable
to the contractor's failure to comply shall be an amount equal to
the actual dollar amount by which the contractor failed to achieve
each subcontracting goal. For calculations for commercial plans see
paragraph (f) of this section.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e203" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>Liquidated damages shall be in
addition to any other remedies that the Government may have.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1222e208" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial
plans.</i> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?>With<?FM MARKER [Why] d. Adding a paragraph heading to the introductory text of paragraph (f);?></ph> respect
to commercial plans approved under the clause at <xref href="52.219-9.dita#FAR_52_219_9"
                        base="i1057444"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.219-9</xref>, Small Business
Subcontracting Plan, the contracting officer that approved the plan
shall-</p>
               <ol id="d1190e75" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e223" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Perform the functions of the contracting
officer under this subsection on behalf of all agencies with contracts
covered by the commercial plan;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e228" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Determine
whether or not the goals in the commercial plan were achieved and,
if they were not achieved, review all available information for
an indication that the contractor has not made a good faith effort
to comply with the plan, and document the results of the review;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e233" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> If a determination
is made to assess liquidated damages, in order to calculate and
assess the amount of damages, the contracting officer shall ask
the contractor to provide-</p>
                     <ol id="d1190e103" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e239" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Contract
numbers for the Government contracts subject to the plan;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e244" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The total
Government sales during the contractor’s fiscal year; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1222e249" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
amount of payments made under the Government contracts subject to
that plan that contributed to the contractor’s total sales during
the contractor’s fiscal year; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e254" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> When appropriate,
assess liquidated damages on the Government’s behalf, based on the
pro rata share of subcontracting attributable to the Government
contracts. For example: The contractor’s total actual sales were
$50 million and its actual subcontracting was $20 million. The Government’s
total payments under contracts subject to the plan contributing
to the contractor’s total sales were $5 million, which accounted
for 10 percent of the contractor’s total sales. Therefore, the pro
rata share of subcontracting attributable to the Government contracts
would be 10 percent of $20 million, or $2 million. To continue the
example, if the contractor failed to achieve its small business
goal by 1 percent, the liquidated damages would be calculated as
1 percent of $2 million, or $20,000. The contracting officer shall
make similar calculations for each category of small business where
the contractor failed to achieve its goal and the sum of the dollars
for all of the categories equals the amount of the liquidated damages
to be assessed. A copy of the contracting officer’s final decision
assessing liquidated damages shall be provided to other contracting
officers with contracts subject to the commercial plan.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1222e259" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-004?>Every<?FM MARKER [Why] e. Removing paragraph (g); and
f. Redesignating paragraph (h) as paragraph (f)(5).?></ph> contracting
officer with a contract that is subject to a commercial plan shall
include in the contract file a copy of the approved plan and a copy
of the final decision assessing liquidating damages, if applicable.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
