<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_705_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.705-2</ph> Determining the need for a subcontracting plan.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">The contracting officer shall take the following actions to determine whether a proposed contractual action requires a subcontracting plan:</p>
         <ol id="d1185e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1185e26" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e17">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Determine whether the proposed total contract dollars will exceed the subcontracting plan threshold in <xref href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                              base="i1100224"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.702</xref>(a).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e25">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Determine whether a proposed modification will cause the total contract dollars to exceed the subcontracting plan threshold (see <xref href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                              base="i1100224"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.702</xref>(a)).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Determine whether subcontracting possibilities exist by considering relevant factors such as-</p>
               <ol id="d1185e62" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Whether firms engaged in the business of furnishing the types of items to be acquired customarily contract for performance of part of the work or maintain sufficient in-house capability to perform the work; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Whether there are likely to be product prequalification requirements.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Whether the firm can acquire any portion of the work with minimal or no disruption to performance (with consideration given to the time remaining until contract completion), and at fair market value, when a determination is made in accordance with paragraph (a)(2).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e54">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            If it is determined that there are no subcontracting possibilities, the determination shall include a detailed rationale, be approved at a level above the contracting officer, and placed in the contract file.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            In solicitations for negotiated acquisitions, the contracting officer may require the submission of subcontracting plans with initial offers, or at any other time prior to award. In determining when subcontracting plans should be required, as well as when and with whom plans should be negotiated, the contracting officer must consider the integrity of the competitive process, the goal of affording maximum practicable opportunity for small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns to participate, and the burden placed on offerors.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e64">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            A contract may not have more than one subcontracting plan. However, a contracting officer may establish separate subcontracting goals for each order under an indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract (<xref href="19.705-1.dita#FAR_19_705_1"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.705-1</xref>(b)(2)). When a contract modification exceeds the subcontracting plan threshold (see <xref href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                        base="i1100224"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.702</xref>(a)) or an option is exercised, the goals of an existing subcontracting plan shall be amended to reflect any new subcontracting opportunities not envisioned at the time of contract award. These goal changes do not apply retroactively.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1217e75">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            If a subcontracting plan has been added to the contract due to a modification (see <xref href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                        base="i1100224"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.702</xref>(a)(1)(iii)) or a size re-representation (see <xref href="19.301-2.dita#FAR_19_301_2"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.301-2</xref>(e)), the subcontracting goals apply from the date of incorporation of the subcontracting plan into the contract and the contractor's achievements must be reported on the ISR (or the SF-294, if applicable) on a cumulative basis from the date of incorporation of the subcontracting plan into the contract.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
