<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="FAR_2_101" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc=""><title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">2.101</ph> Definitions.</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><ol id="d73e13" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e26"> A word or a term, defined in this section, has the same meaning throughout this chapter (the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)) unless the context in which the word or term is used clearly requires a different meaning or another FAR part, subpart, or section provides a different definition for the particular part or portion of the part. If a word or term that is defined in this section is defined differently in another part, subpart, or section of this chapter, the definition in this section includes a cross-reference to the other definitions and that part, subpart, or section applies to the word or term when used in that part, subpart, or section.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e41">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e79" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acquisition</i> means
the acquiring by contract with appropriated funds of supplies or
services (including construction) by and for the use of the Federal
Government through purchase or lease, whether the supplies or services
are already in existence or must be created, developed, demonstrated,
and evaluated. Acquisition begins at the point when agency needs are
established and includes the description of requirements to satisfy
agency needs, solicitation and selection of sources, award of contracts,
contract financing, contract performance, contract administration,
and those technical and management functions directly related to
the process of fulfilling agency needs by contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e45">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e85" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acquisition
planning</i> means the process by which the efforts of all personnel
responsible for an acquisition are coordinated and integrated through
a comprehensive plan for fulfilling the agency need in a timely
manner and at a reasonable cost. It includes developing the overall
strategy for managing the acquisition.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e49">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e91" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Activity Address Code (AAC)</i>
                  means a distinct six-position code consisting of a combination of alpha and/or
                  numeric characters assigned to identify specific agency offices, units,
                  activities, or organizations by the General Services Administration for civilian
                  agencies and by the Department of Defense for defense agencies.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e53">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e98" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Adequate
evidence</i> means information sufficient to support the reasonable
belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e57">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e104" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Advisory and assistance services</i> means those
services provided under contract by nongovernmental sources to support
or improve: organizational policy development; decision-making;
management and administration; program and/or project management
and administration; or R&amp;D activities. It can also mean the
furnishing of professional advice or assistance rendered to improve
the effectiveness of Federal management processes or procedures
(including those of an engineering and technical nature). In rendering
the foregoing services, outputs may take the form of information,
advice, opinions, alternatives, analyses, evaluations, recommendations,
training and the day-to-day aid of support personnel needed for
the successful performance of ongoing Federal operations. All advisory
and assistance services are classified in one of the following definitional
subdivisions:<ol id="d73e90" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e63">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Management and professional support
services, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> contractual services that provide assistance,
advice or training for the efficient and effective management and
operation of organizations, activities (including management and
support services for R&amp;D activities), or systems. These services
are normally closely related to the basic responsibilities and mission
of the agency originating the requirement for the acquisition of
services by contract. Included are efforts that support or contribute
to improved organization of program management, logistics management,
project monitoring and reporting, data collection, budgeting, accounting,
performance auditing, and administrative technical support for conferences
and training programs.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e71">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Studies,
analyses and evaluations, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> contracted services that
provide organized, analytical assessments/evaluations in support
of policy development, decision-making, management, or administration.
Included are studies in support of R&amp;D activities. Also included
are acquisitions of models, methodologies, and related software
supporting studies, analyses or evaluations.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e79">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Engineering
and technical services, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> contractual services used to
support the program office during the acquisition cycle by providing
such services as systems engineering and technical direction (see
9.505-1(b)) to ensure the effective operation and maintenance of
a weapon system or major system as defined in OMB Circular No.A-109
or to provide direct support of a weapon system that is essential
to research, development, production, operation or maintenance of
the system.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e86">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="tsdf343" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Affiliates</i> means associated
business concerns or individuals if, directly or indirectly either
one controls or can control the other; or third party controls or
can control both, except as follows:<ol id="d73e180" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e92">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use in subpart <xref href="Subpart_9.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_9_4" base="FAR_Subpart_9_4" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.4</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="9.403.dita#FAR_9_403" base="FAR_9_403" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.403</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e103">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
of affiliates in size determinations, see the definition of "small
business concern" in this section.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e107">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e191" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Agency
head</i> or "head of the agency" means the Secretary, Attorney General,
Administrator, Governor, Chairperson, or other chief official of
an executive agency, unless otherwise indicated, including any deputy
or assistant chief official of an executive agency.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e111">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e198" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate</i> means
a substantive variation of a basic provision or clause prescribed
for use in a defined circumstance. It adds wording to, deletes wording
from, or substitutes specified wording for a portion of the basic
provision or clause. The alternate version of a provision or clause
is the basic provision or clause as changed by the addition, deletion,
or substitution (see <xref href="52.105.dita#FAR_52_105" base="FAR_52_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.105</xref>(a)).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e118">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e207" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Architect-engineer services</i>, as defined
in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section1102&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 1102</xref>, means—<ol id="d73e217" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e127">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Professional
services of an architectural or engineering nature, as defined by
State law, if applicable, that are required to be performed or approved
by a person licensed, registered, or certified to provide those
services;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e132">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Professional
services of an architectural or engineering nature performed by
contract that are associated with research, planning, development,
design, construction, alteration, or repair of real property; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e137">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Those other
professional services of an architectural or engineering nature,
or incidental services, that members of the architectural and engineering
professions (and individuals in their employ) may logically or justifiably
perform, including studies, investigations, surveying and mapping,
tests, evaluations, consultations, comprehensive planning, program
management, conceptual designs, plans and specifications, value
engineering, construction phase services, soils engineering, drawing
reviews, preparation of operating and maintenance manuals, and other
related services.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e142">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e246" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Assignment
of claims</i> means the transfer or making over by the contractor
to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, as security
for a loan to the contractor, of its right to be paid by the Government
for contract performance.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e146">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e252" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Assisted acquisition</i> means
a type of interagency acquisition where a servicing agency performs
acquisition activities on a requesting agency's behalf, such as
awarding and administering a contract, task order, or delivery order.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e150">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e258" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Basic research</i> means that research directed
toward increasing knowledge in science. The primary aim of basic
research is a fuller knowledge or understanding of the subject under
study, rather than any practical application of that knowledge.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e154">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e265" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Best value</i> means the expected outcome of
an acquisition that, in the Government's estimation, provides the
greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e158">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e271" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Bid sample</i> means a product sample required
to be submitted by an offeror to show characteristics of the offered
products that cannot adequately be described by specifications,
purchase descriptions, or the solicitation (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> balance,
facility of use, or pattern).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e165">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e280" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Biobased product</i> means a product determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to be a commercial product or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials, or that is an intermediate ingredient or feedstock. The term includes, with respect to forestry materials, forest products that meet biobased content requirements, notwithstanding the market share the product holds, the age of the product, or whether the market for the product is new or emerging. (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8101&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">7 U.S.C. 8101</xref>) (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-7/section-3201.2" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">7 CFR 3201.2</xref>). </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e169">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e286" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Broad
agency announcement</i> means a general announcement of an agency’s
research interest including criteria for selecting proposals and
soliciting the participation of all offerors capable of satisfying
the Government’s needs (see <xref href="6.102.dita#FAR_6_102" base="FAR_6_102" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">6.102</xref>(d)(2)).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e176">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e295" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Building or work</i> means construction activity
as distinguished from manufacturing, furnishing of materials, or
servicing and maintenance work. The terms include, without limitation,
buildings, structures, and improvements of all types, such as bridges,
dams, plants, highways, parkways, streets, subways, tunnels, sewers,
mains, power lines, pumping stations, heavy generators, railways,
airports, terminals, docks, piers, wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys,
jetties, breakwaters, levees, canals, dredging, shoring, rehabilitation
and reactivation of plants, scaffolding, drilling, blasting, excavating,
clearing, and landscaping. The manufacture or furnishing of materials,
articles, supplies, or equipment (whether or not a Federal or State
agency acquires title to such materials, articles, supplies, or
equipment during the course of the manufacture or furnishing, or
owns the materials from which they are manufactured or furnished)
is not "building" or "work" within the meaning of this definition
unless conducted in connection with and at the site of such building
or work as is described in the foregoing sentence, or under the
United States Housing Act of 1937 and the Housing Act of 1949 in
the construction or development of the project.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e180">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e301" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Bundling</i>—<ol id="d73e281" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e186">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means
a subset of consolidation that combines two or more requirements
for supplies or services, previously provided or performed under
separate smaller contracts (see paragraph (2) of this definition),
into a solicitation for a single contract, a multiple-award contract,
or a task or delivery order that is likely to be unsuitable for
award to a small business concern (even if it is suitable for award
to a small business with a Small Business Teaming Arrangement) due
to—</p>
                        <ol id="d73e291" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e192">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  The
diversity, size, or specialized nature of the elements of the performance
specified;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e197">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  The aggregate
dollar value of the anticipated award;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e202">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  The geographical
dispersion of the contract performance sites; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e207">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Any combination
of the factors described in paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of
this definition.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e212">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            "Separate
smaller contract" as used in this definition, means a contract that
has been performed by one or more small business concerns or that
was suitable for award to one or more small business concerns.</p>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e216">
                            
                        </p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e221">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e377" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Business unit</i> means any segment of an organization,
or an entire business organization that is not divided into segments.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e225">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e383" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Certified cost or pricing data</i> means "cost or pricing data" that were required to be submitted in accordance with FAR <xref href="15.403-4.dita#FAR_15_403_4" base="FAR_15_403_4" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">15.403-4</xref> and <xref href="15.403-5.dita#FAR_15_403_5" base="FAR_15_403_5" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">15.403-5</xref> and have been certified, or is required to be certified, in accordance with <xref href="15.406-2.dita#FAR_15_406_2" base="FAR_15_406_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">15.406-2</xref>. This certification states that, to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data is accurate, complete, and current as of a date certain before contract award. Cost or pricing data is required to be certified in certain procurements (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title10-chapter271&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. chapter 271</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title41-chapter35&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 35</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e245">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e405" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Change-of-name agreement</i> means a legal instrument
executed by the contractor and the Government that recognizes the legal
change of name of the contractor without disturbing the original
contractual rights and obligations of the parties.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e249">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e411" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Change
order</i> means a written order, signed by the contracting officer,
directing the contractor to make a change that the Changes clause
authorizes the contracting officer to order without the contractor’s
consent.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e253">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e417" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Chief Acquisition Officer</i> means an executive
level acquisition official responsible for agency performance of
acquisition activities and acquisition programs created pursuant
to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1702&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1702</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e260">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e427" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Chief of mission</i> means the principal officer
in charge of a diplomatic mission of the United States or of a United
States office abroad which is designated by the Secretary of State
as diplomatic in nature, including any individual assigned under
section 502(c) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465)
to be temporarily in charge of such a mission or office.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e264">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e433" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Claim</i> means a written demand or written
assertion by one of the contracting parties seeking, as a matter
of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment
or interpretation of contract terms, or other relief arising under
or relating to the contract. However, a written demand or written
assertion by the contractor seeking the payment of money exceeding $100,000
is not a claim under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title41-chapter71&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 71</xref>,
Contract Disputes, until certified as required by the statute. A
voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is not
in dispute when submitted is not a claim. The submission may be converted
to a claim, by written notice to the contracting officer as provided
in <xref href="33.206.dita#FAR_33_206" base="FAR_33_206" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">33.206</xref>(a), if it is disputed
either as to liability or amount or is not acted upon in a reasonable
time.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e274">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e445" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Classified acquisition</i> means an acquisition
in which offerors must have access to classified information to
properly submit an offer or quotation, to understand the performance
requirements, or to perform the contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e278">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e451" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Classified
contract</i> means any contract in which the contractor or its employees
must have access to classified information during contract performance.
A contract may be a classified contract even though the contract
document itself is unclassified.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e282">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e457" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Classified
information</i> means any knowledge that can be communicated or
any documentary material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics,
that—<ol id="d73e405" class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e288">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol id="d73e415" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e293">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Is owned by,
is produced by or for, or is under the control of the United States
Government; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e298">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Has been
classified by the Department of Energy as privately generated restricted
data following the procedures in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">10 CFR
1045.21</ph>; and</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e306">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Must be
protected against unauthorized disclosure according to Executive
Order12958, Classified National Security Information, April 7,1995,
or classified in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e310">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e506" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cognizant Federal agency</i> means the Federal
agency that, on behalf of all Federal agencies, is responsible for
establishing final indirect cost rates and forward pricing rates,
if applicable, and administering cost accounting standards for all
contracts in a business unit.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e314">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e512" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Combatant
commander</i> means the commander of a unified or specified combatant
command established in accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section161&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 161</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e318">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d15e328" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code</i> means— <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e324">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            An identifier
assigned to entities located in the United States or its outlying
areas by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Commercial and Government
Entity (CAGE) Branch to identify a commercial or government entity
by unique location; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e329">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            An identifier
assigned by a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
or by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency (NSPA) to entities
located outside the United States and its outlying areas that the
DLA Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch records and maintains
in the CAGE master file. This type of code is known as a NATO CAGE
(NCAGE) code.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e334">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e518" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial component</i> means
any component that is a commercial product.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e338">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e524" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial
computer software</i> means any computer software that is a commercial
product or commercial service.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e342">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e530" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial
product</i> means— <ol id="d73e463" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e348">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A product, other than real property,
that is of a type customarily used by the general public or by nongovernmental entities
for purposes other than governmental purposes, and–</p>
                        <ol id="d73e473" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e354">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Has
been sold, leased, or licensed to the general public; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e359">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Has been
offered for sale, lease, or license to the general public;</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e364">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A product
that evolved from a product described in paragraph (1) of this definition
through advances in technology or performance and that is not yet
available in the commercial marketplace, but will be available in
the commercial marketplace in time to satisfy the delivery requirements
under a Government solicitation;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e369">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A product
that would satisfy a criterion expressed in paragraph (1) or (2)
of this definition, except for-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e512" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e375">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Modifications
of a type customarily available in the commercial marketplace; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e380">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Minor modifications
of a type not customarily available in the commercial marketplace
made to meet Federal Government requirements. “Minor modifications”
means modifications that do not significantly alter the nongovernmental
function or essential physical characteristics of an item or component,
or change the purpose of a process. Factors to be considered in
determining whether a modification is minor include the value and
size of the modification and the comparative value and size of the
final product. Dollar values and percentages may be used as guideposts,
but are not conclusive evidence that a modification is minor;</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e385">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Any combination
of products meeting the requirements of paragraph (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition that are of a type customarily combined and sold
in combination to the general public;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e390">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A product,
or combination of products, referred to in paragraphs (1) through
(4) of this definition, even though the product, or combination
of products, is transferred between or among separate divisions,
subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e395">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           A nondevelopmental
item, if the procuring agency determines the product was developed
exclusively at private expense and sold in substantial quantities,
on a competitive basis, to multiple State and local governments
or to multiple foreign governments.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e399">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d23e418" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial
service</i> means— <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e405">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Installation
services, maintenance services, repair services, training services,
and other services if–</p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e411">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Such services are procured for
support of a commercial product as defined in this section, regardless
of whether such services are provided by the same source or at the
same time as the commercial product; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e416">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 The source
of such services provides similar services contemporaneously to
the general public under terms and conditions similar to those offered
to the Federal Government;</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e421">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Services
of a type offered and sold competitively in substantial quantities
in the commercial marketplace based on established catalog or market
prices for specific tasks performed or specific outcomes to be achieved
and under standard commercial terms and conditions. For purposes
of these services–</p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e427">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Catalog
price</i> means a price included in a catalog, price list, schedule,
or other form that is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or
vendor, is either published or otherwise available for inspection
by customers, and states prices at which sales are currently, or
were last, made to a significant number of buyers constituting the
general public; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e434">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Market
prices</i> means current prices that are established in the course
of ordinary trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain and
that can be substantiated through competition or from sources independent
of the offerors; or</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e441">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           A service
referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition, even though
the service is transferred between or among separate divisions,
subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e445">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e697" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS)
item</i> — <ol id="d73e626" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e451">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means any item of supply (including
construction material) that is–</p>
                        <ol id="d73e636" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e457">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  A commercial
product (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of “commercial
product” in this section);</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e462">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Sold in
substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e467">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Offered
to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier,
without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the
commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e472">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Does not
include bulk cargo, as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section40102(4)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">46 U.S.C. 40102(4)</xref>,
such as agricultural products and petroleum products.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e479">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e792" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Common item</i> means material that is
                  common to the applicable Government contract and the
                  contractor's other work, except that for use in the clause at
                     <xref href="52.246-26.dita#FAR_52_246_26" base="FAR_52_246_26" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.246-26</xref>, see the definition in paragraph (a) of
                  that clause.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e486">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e766" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Component</i> means
any item supplied to the Government as part of an end item or of
another component, except that for use in—<ol id="d73e686" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e492">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Part 25, see
the definition in <xref href="25.003.dita#FAR_25_003" base="FAR_25_003" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e500">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           <xref href="52.225-1.dita#FAR_52_225_1" base="FAR_52_225_1" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref> and <xref href="52.225-3.dita#FAR_52_225_3" base="FAR_52_225_3" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="52.225-1.dita#FAR_52_225_1" base="FAR_52_225_1" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref>(a) and <xref href="52.225-3.dita#FAR_52_225_3" base="FAR_52_225_3" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>(a);</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e516">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           <xref href="52.225-9.dita#FAR_52_225_9" base="FAR_52_225_9" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-9</xref> and <xref href="52.225-11.dita#FAR_52_225_11" base="FAR_52_225_11" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-11</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="52.225-9.dita#FAR_52_225_9" base="FAR_52_225_9" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-9</xref>(a) and <xref href="52.225-11.dita#FAR_52_225_11" base="FAR_52_225_11" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-11</xref>(a); and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e532">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           <xref href="52.225-21.dita#FAR_52_225_21" base="FAR_52_225_21" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-21</xref> and <xref href="52.225-23.dita#FAR_52_225_23" base="FAR_52_225_23" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-23</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="52.225-21.dita#FAR_52_225_21" base="FAR_52_225_21" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-21</xref>(a) and <xref href="52.225-23.dita#FAR_52_225_23" base="FAR_52_225_23" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-23</xref>(a).</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e547">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e853" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computer database</i> or "database" means a
collection of recorded information in a form capable of, and for
the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a
computer. The term does not include computer software.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e551">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d3e552" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computer software</i> —<ol id="d73e774" class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e557">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means</p>
                        <ol id="d73e784" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e563">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Computer
programs that comprise a series of instructions, rules, routines,
or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow
or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of
operations; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e568">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Recorded
information comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms,
processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would
enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e573">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Does not
include computer databases or computer software documentation.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e577">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e908" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computer software documentation</i> means owner’s
manuals, user’s manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions,
and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain
the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions
for using the software.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e581">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e914" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Consent to subcontract</i> means
the contracting officer’s written consent for the prime contractor
to enter into a particular subcontract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e586">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e920" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Consolidation
or consolidated requirement</i>—<ol id="d73e827" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e592">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means a solicitation for a single
contract, a multiple-award contract, a task order, or a delivery
order to satisfy-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e837" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e598">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Two or more requirements of the
Federal agency for supplies or services that have been provided
to or performed for the Federal agency under two or more separate
contracts, each of which was lower in cost than the total cost of
the contract for which offers are solicited; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e603">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Requirements
of the Federal agency for construction projects to be performed
at two or more discrete sites.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e608">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            "Separate
contract" as used in this definition, means a contract that has
been performed by any business, including small and other than small
business concerns.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e612">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e969" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction</i> means
construction, alteration, or repair (including dredging, excavating,
and painting) of buildings, structures, or other real property.
For purposes of this definition, the terms "buildings, structures,
or other real property" include, but are not limited to, improvements
of all types, such as bridges, dams, plants, highways, parkways,
streets, subways, tunnels, sewers, mains, power lines, cemeteries,
pumping stations, railways, airport facilities, terminals, docks, piers,
wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys, jetties, breakwaters, levees,
canals, and channels. Construction does not include the manufacture,
production, furnishing, construction, alteration, repair, processing,
or assembling of vessels, aircraft, or other kinds of personal property
(except that for use in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_5" base="FAR_Subpart_22_5" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.5</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.502.dita#FAR_22_502" base="FAR_22_502" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.502</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e622">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e981" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contiguous United States</i> (CONUS) means the
48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e626">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e987" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contingency
operation</i> (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section101(a)(13)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13)</xref>)
means a military operation that-<ol id="d73e887" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e635">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Is designated by the Secretary
of Defense as an operation in which members of the armed forces
are or may become involved in military actions, operations, or hostilities
against an enemy of the United States or against an opposing military
force; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e640">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Results in the call or order to, or retention on, active duty of members of the uniformed services under sections <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref "> 688</xref>, 12301(a), 12302, 12304, 12304a, 12305, or 12406 of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref "> title 10</xref> of the United States Code, 
                              <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1301&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">Chapter 13 of title 10 of the United States Code</xref>, and section 3713 of title 14 of the United States Code, or any other provision of law during a war or during a national emergency declared by the President or Congress.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e672">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1045" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Continued portion of the contract</i> means
the portion of a contract that the contractor must continue to perform
following a partial termination.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e676">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1051" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract</i> means
a mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller to furnish
the supplies or services (including construction) and the buyer
to pay for them. It includes all types of commitments that obligate
the Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds and that,
except as otherwise authorized, are in writing. In addition to bilateral
instruments, contracts include (but are not limited to) awards and
notices of awards; job orders or task letters issued under basic ordering
agreements; letter contracts; orders, such as purchase orders, under
which the contract becomes effective by written acceptance or performance;
and bilateral contract modifications. Contracts do not include grants
and cooperative agreements covered by <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section6301&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C.6301</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et
seq.</i> For discussion of various types of contracts, see part  16.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e686">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1067" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract administration office</i> means an
office that performs-<ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e692">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Assigned
postaward functions related to the administration of contracts;
and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e697">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Assigned
preaward functions.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e701">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1094" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract
clause</i> or "clause" means a term or condition used in contracts
or in both solicitations and contracts, and applying after contract
award or both before and after award.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e705">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1100" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract
modification</i> means any written change in the terms of a contract
(see <xref href="43.103.dita#FAR_43_103" base="FAR_43_103" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">43.103</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e712">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1109" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting</i> means
purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise obtaining supplies or
services from nonfederal sources. Contracting includes description
(but not determination) of supplies and services required, selection
and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contracts,
and all phases of contract administration. It does not include making
grants or cooperative agreements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e716">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1115" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting
activity</i> means an element of an agency designated by the agency
head and delegated broad authority regarding acquisition functions.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e721">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1122" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting office</i> means an office that
awards or executes a contract for supplies or services and performs
postaward functions not assigned to a contract administration office
(except for use in part 48, see also <xref href="48.001.dita#FAR_48_001" base="FAR_48_001" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">48.001</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e728">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1134" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting
officer</i> means a person with the authority to enter into, administer,
and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings.
The term includes certain authorized representatives of the contracting
officer acting within the limits of their authority as delegated
by the contracting officer. "Administrative contracting officer
(ACO)" refers to a contracting officer who is administering contracts.
"Termination contracting officer (TCO)" refers to a contracting
officer who is settling terminated contracts. A single contracting
officer may be responsible for duties in any or all of these areas. Reference
in this regulation (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/chapter-1" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">48 CFR chapter 1</xref>) to administrative contracting
officer or termination contracting officer does not-<ol id="d73e1000" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e734">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Require
that a duty be performed at a particular office or activity; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e739">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Restrict
in any way a contracting officer in the performance of any duty
properly assigned.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e743">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1161" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting
officer’s representative (COR)</i> means an individual, including
a contracting officer’s technical representative (COTR), designated
and authorized in writing by the contracting officer to perform
specific technical or administrative functions.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e747">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1167" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Conviction</i> means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, and includes a conviction entered upon a plea of nolo contendere. For use in subpart <xref href="Subpart_9.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_9_4" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.4</xref>, see the definition at <xref href="9.403.dita#FAR_9_403" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.403</xref>. For use in subpart <xref href="Subpart_26.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_26_5" base="FAR_Subpart_23_5" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">26.5</xref>, see the definition at <xref href="26.503.dita#FAR_26_503" base="FAR_23_503" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">26.503</xref>.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e757">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1179" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost or pricing data</i> (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3701&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 3701(1)</xref>  and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title41-chapter35&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 35</xref>) means all facts that, as of the date of price agreement, or, if applicable, an earlier date agreed upon between the parties that is as close as practicable to the date of agreement on price, prudent buyers and sellers would reasonably expect to affect price negotiations significantly. Cost or pricing data are factual, not judgmental; and are verifiable. While they do not indicate the accuracy of the prospective contractor’s judgment about estimated future costs or projections, they do include the data forming the basis for that judgment. Cost or pricing data are more than historical accounting data; they are all the facts that can be reasonably expected to contribute to the soundness of estimates of future costs and to the validity of determinations of costs already incurred. They also include, but are not limited to, such factors as-<ol id="d73e1042" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e769">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Vendor quotations;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e774">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Nonrecurring costs;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e779">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Information on changes in production methods and in production or purchasing volume;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e784">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Data supporting projections of business prospects and objectives and related operations costs;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e789">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Unit-cost trends such as those associated with labor efficiency;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e794">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Make-or-buy decisions;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e799">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Estimated resources to attain business goals; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e804">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Information on management decisions that could have a significant bearing on costs.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e808">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1268" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost realism</i> means that
the costs in an offeror’s proposal-<ol id="d73e1121" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e814">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Are realistic
for the work to be performed;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e819">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Reflect
a clear understanding of the requirements; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e824">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Are consistent
with the various elements of the offeror’s technical proposal.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e828">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1304" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost sharing</i> means an explicit arrangement
under which the contractor bears some of the burden of reasonable,
allocable, and allowable contract cost.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e832">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1310" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Customs
territory of the United States</i> means the 50 States, the District
of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e808">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e1115" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Covered territory business,</i> as defined at <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/15/632" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 632(ff)</xref> and <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.1" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.1</xref>, means a small business concern that has its principal office located in the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e836">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1316" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Data
other than certified cost or pricing data</i> means pricing data,
cost data, and judgmental information necessary for the contracting
officer to determine a fair and reasonable price or to determine
cost realism. Such data may include the identical types of data
as certified cost or pricing data, consistent with Table 15-2 of <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408" base="FAR_15_408" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref>, but without the
certification. The data may also include, for example, sales data
and any information reasonably required to explain the offeror’s
estimating process, including, but not limited to–<ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e845">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The judgmental
factors applied and the mathematical or other methods used in the
estimate, including those used in projecting from known data; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e850">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The nature
and amount of any contingencies included in the proposed price.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e854">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1350" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Day</i> means, unless otherwise specified, a
calendar day.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e858">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1356" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Debarment</i> means action taken by a suspending and debarring official under <xref href="9.406.dita#FAR_9_406" base="FAR_9_406" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.406</xref> to exclude a contractor from Government contracting and Government-approved subcontracting for a reasonable, specified period; a contractor that is “debarred” is excluded.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e866">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1365" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Delivery
order</i> means an order for supplies placed against an established
contract or with Government sources.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e870">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1371" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Depreciation</i> means
a charge to current operations that distributes the cost of a tangible
capital asset, less estimated residual value, over the estimated
useful life of the asset in a systematic and logical manner. It
does not involve a process of valuation. Useful life refers to the
prospective period of economic usefulness in a particular contractor’s
operations as distinguished from physical life; it is evidenced
by the actual or estimated retirement and replacement practice of
the contractor.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e874">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1377" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Descriptive literature</i> means
information provided by an offeror, such as cuts, illustrations,
drawings, and brochures, that shows a product’s characteristics
or construction of a product or explains its operation. The term
includes only that information needed to evaluate the acceptability
of the product and excludes other information for operating or maintaining
the product.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e878">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1384" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Design-to-cost</i> means a
concept that establishes cost elements as management goals to achieve
the best balance between life-cycle cost, acceptable performance,
and schedule. Under this concept, cost is a design constraint during
the design and development phases and a management discipline throughout
the acquisition and operation of the system or equipment.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e882">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1390" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Designated operational area</i> means a geographic
area designated by the combatant commander or subordinate joint
force commander for the conduct or support of specified military
operations.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e886">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1396" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Direct acquisition</i> means
a type of interagency acquisition where a requesting agency places
an order directly against a servicing agency’s indefinite-delivery
contract. The servicing agency manages the indefinite-delivery contract
but does not participate in the placement or administration of an
order.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e890">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1402" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Direct cost</i> means any cost that is identified
specifically with a particular final cost objective. Direct costs
are not limited to items that are incorporated in the end product
as material or labor. Costs identified specifically with a contract
are direct costs of that contract. All costs identified specifically
with other final cost objectives of the contractor are direct costs
of those cost objectives.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e894">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1408" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Disaster Response Registry</i> means
a voluntary registry of contractors who are willing to perform debris
removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction, and other disaster
or emergency relief activities established in accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">6 U.S.C. 796</xref>,
Registry of Disaster Response Contractors. The Registry contains
information on contractors who are willing to perform disaster or
emergency relief activities within the United States and its outlying
areas. The Registry is accessed via the Internet at <xref href="https://www.sam.gov" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>,
Search Records, Advanced Search, Disaster Response Registry Search.
(See 26.205.)</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e904">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1423" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Drug-free workplace</i> means
the site(s) for the performance of work done by the contractor in
connection with a specific contract where employees of the contractor
are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e908">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1430" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Earned value management system</i> means a project
management tool that effectively integrates the project scope of
work with cost, schedule and performance elements for optimum project
planning and control. The qualities and operating characteristics
of an earned value management system are described in Electronic
Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748), Earned Value Management
Systems. (See OMB Circular A-11, part  7.)</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e912">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1439" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Economically
disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern</i>- (see
definition of "Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program" in this
section).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e917">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1445" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Effective date of termination</i> means the
date on which the notice of termination requires the contractor
to stop performance under the contract. If the contractor receives
the termination notice after the date fixed for termination, then
the effective date of termination means the date the contractor
receives the notice.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e921">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1457" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic commerce</i> means
electronic techniques for accomplishing business transactions including
electronic mail or messaging, World Wide Web technology, electronic
bulletin boards, purchase cards, electronic funds transfer, and
electronic data interchange.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e925">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1463" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic
data interchange (EDI)</i> means a technique for electronically
transferring and storing formatted information between computers
utilizing established and published formats and codes, as authorized
by the applicable Federal Information Processing Standards.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e929">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1470" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT)</i> means any
transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash,
check, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an
electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for
the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial
institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes Automated Clearing
House transfers, Fedwire transfers, and transfers made at automatic
teller machines and point-of-sale terminals. For purposes of compliance
with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3332&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C.3332</xref> and
implementing regulations at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">31 CFR part
208</ph>, the term "electronic funds transfer" includes a Governmentwide
commercial purchase card transaction.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e939">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1479" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic
Funds Transfer (EFT) indicator</i> means a four-character suffix
to the unique entity identifier. The suffix is assigned at the discretion
of the commercial, nonprofit, or Government entity to establish
additional System for Award Management records for identifying alternative
EFT accounts (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_32.11.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_11" base="FAR_Subpart_32_11" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">32.11</xref>)
for the same entity.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e946">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d27e978" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Emergency</i>, as used in <xref href="6.208.dita#FAR_6_208" base="FAR_6_208" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">6.208</xref>, <xref href="13.201.dita#FAR_13_201" base="FAR_13_201" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">13.201</xref>, <xref href="13.500.dita#FAR_13_500" base="FAR_13_500" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">13.500</xref>, <xref href="18.001.dita#FAR_18_001" base="FAR_18_202" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">18.001</xref>, <xref href="18.202.dita#FAR_18_202" base="FAR_18_202" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">18.202</xref>, <xref href="18.203.dita#FAR_18_203" base="FAR_18_203" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">18.203</xref>, and subpart <xref href="Subpart_26.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_26_2" base="FAR_Subpart_26_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">26.2</xref>,
means any occasion or instance for which, in the determination of
the President, Federal assistance is needed to supplement State
and local efforts and capabilities to save lives and to protect
property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the
threat of a catastrophe in any part of the United States (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5122&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e975">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1519" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">End product</i> means supplies delivered under
a line item of a Government contract, except for use in part 25
and the associated clauses at <xref href="52.225-1.dita#FAR_52_225_1" base="FAR_52_225_1" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref>, <xref href="52.225-3.dita#FAR_52_225_3" base="FAR_52_225_3" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>, and <xref href="52.225-5.dita#FAR_52_225_5" base="FAR_52_225_5" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-5</xref>, see the definitions
in <xref href="25.003.dita#FAR_25_003" base="FAR_25_003" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>, <xref href="52.225-1.dita#FAR_52_225_1" base="FAR_52_225_1" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref>(a), <xref href="52.225-3.dita#FAR_52_225_3" base="FAR_52_225_3" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>(a), and <xref href="52.225-5.dita#FAR_52_225_5" base="FAR_52_225_5" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.225-5</xref>(a).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1001">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1550" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Energy-efficient product</i>—<ol id="d73e1286" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1007">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means a
product that–</p>
                        <ol id="d73e1296" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1013">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Meets Department of Energy and
Environmental Protection Agency criteria for use of the Energy Star
trademark label; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1018">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Is in
the upper 25 percent of efficiency for all similar products as designated
by the Department of Energy’s Federal Energy Management Program.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1023">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            As used
in this definition, the term "product" does not include any energy-consuming
product or system designed or procured for combat or combat-related
missions (42 U.S.C. 8259b).</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1030">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1602" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Energy-efficient standby power devices</i> means
products that use—<ol id="d73e1334" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1036">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            External standby power devices,
or that contain an internal standby power function; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1041">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            No more
than one watt of electricity in their standby power consuming mode
or meet recommended low standby levels as designated by the Department
of Energy Federal Energy Management Program.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1045">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1629" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Energy savings performance contract</i>, pursuant to <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8287&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 8287</xref> and <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-10/section-436.31" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 CFR 436.31</xref>, means a contract that requires the contractor to— <ol id="d73e1358" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1051">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                             Perform services for the design, acquisition, financing, installation, testing, operation, and where appropriate, maintenance and repair, of an identified energy conservation measure or series of measures at one or more locations;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1056">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                             Incur the costs of implementing the energy savings measures, including at least the cost (if any) incurred in making energy audits, acquiring and installing equipment, and training personnel in exchange for a predetermined share of the value of the energy savings directly resulting from implementation of such measures during the term of the contract; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1061">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                             Guarantee future energy and cost savings to the Government.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1065">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1665" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Environmentally preferable</i> means, in the case of a product or service, having a lesser or reduced effect on human health and the environment when compared with competing products or services that serve the same purpose. This comparison may consider raw materials acquisition, production, manufacturing, packaging, distribution, reuse, operation, maintenance, or disposal of the product or service. (Section 314 of <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/plaw/107/public/314" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">Pub. L. 107-314</xref>, <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section22301&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. chapter 223</xref> note) </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1070">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1671" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Excess personal property</i> means any personal
property under the control of a Federal agency that the agency head
determines is not required for its needs or for the discharge of
its responsibilities.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1074">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1678" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Executive agency</i> means
an executive department, a military department, or any independent
establishment within the meaning of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section101&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">5 U.S.C.101</xref>, 102, and 104(1), respectively,
and any wholly owned Government corporation within the meaning of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section9101&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C. 9101</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1090">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1696" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Facilities capital cost of money</i> means "cost
of money as an element of the cost of facilities capital" as used
at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9904.414</ph>-Cost Accounting
Standard-Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Facilities Capital.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1097">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1702" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal agency</i> means any executive agency
or any independent establishment in the legislative or judicial
branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives,
the Architect of the Capitol, and any activities under the Architect’s
direction).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1101">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1708" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federally-controlled facilities</i> means—<ol id="d73e1419" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1107">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Federally-owned
buildings or leased space, whether for single or multi-tenant occupancy,
and its grounds and approaches, all or any portion of which is under
the jurisdiction, custody or control of a department or agency;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1112">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Federally-controlled
commercial space shared with non-government tenants. For example,
if a department or agency leased the 10th floor of a commercial
building, the Directive applies to the 10th floor only;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1117">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Government-owned,
contractor-operated facilities, including laboratories engaged in
national defense research and production activities; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1122">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Facilities
under a management and operating contract, such as for the operation,
maintenance, or support of a Government-owned or Government-controlled
research, development, special production, or testing establishment.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1126">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1753" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federally-controlled information system</i> means
an information system (44 U.S.C. 3502(8) used
or operated by a Federal agency, or a contractor or other organization
on behalf of the agency (44 U.S.C. 3544(a)(1)(A)).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1136">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1766" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federally Funded Research and Development Centers
(FFRDC’s)</i> means activities that are sponsored under a broad
charter by a Government agency (or agencies) for the purpose of
performing, analyzing, integrating, supporting, and/or managing
basic or applied research and/or development, and that receive 70
percent or more of their financial support from the Government;
and-<ol id="d73e1470" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1142">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A
long-term relationship is contemplated;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1147">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Most or
all of the facilities are owned or funded by the Government; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1152">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The FFRDC
has access to Government and supplier data, employees, and facilities
beyond that common in a normal contractual relationship.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1156">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1802" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Final indirect cost rate</i> means the indirect
cost rate established and agreed upon by the Government and the
contractor as not subject to change. It is usually established after
the close of the contractor’s fiscal year (unless the parties decide
upon a different period) to which it applies. For cost-reimbursement
research and development contracts with educational institutions,
it may be predetermined; that is, established for a future period
on the basis of cost experience with similar contracts, together
with supporting data.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1160">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1808" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">First article</i> means a
preproduction model, initial production sample, test sample, first
lot, pilot lot, or pilot models.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1164">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1814" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">First
article testing</i> means testing and evaluating the first article
for conformance with specified contract requirements before or in
the initial stage of production.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1168">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1820" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">F.o.b.</i> means
free on board. This term is used in conjunction with a physical
point to determine-<ol id="d73e1512" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1174">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The responsibility and basis for
payment of freight charges; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1179">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Unless
otherwise agreed, the point where title for goods passes to the
buyer or consignee.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1184">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1848" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">F.o.b.
destination</i> means free on board at destination; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> the
seller or consignor delivers the goods on seller’s or consignor’s
conveyance at destination. Unless the contract provides otherwise,
the seller or consignor is responsible for the cost of shipping
and risk of loss. For use in the clause at <xref href="52.247-34.dita#FAR_52_247_34" base="FAR_52_247_34" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.247-34</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="52.247-34.dita#FAR_52_247_34" base="FAR_52_247_34" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.247-34</xref>(a).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1197">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1863" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">F.o.b. origin</i> means free on board at origin; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> the
seller or consignor places the goods on the conveyance. Unless the contract
provides otherwise, the buyer or consignee is responsible for the
cost of shipping and risk of loss. For use in the clause at <xref href="52.247-29.dita#FAR_52_247_29" base="FAR_52_247_29" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.247-29</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="52.247-29.dita#FAR_52_247_29" base="FAR_52_247_29" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.247-29</xref>(a).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1210">F.o.b.... (For other types of F.o.b., see <xref href="47.303.dita#FAR_47_303" base="FAR_47_303" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">47.303</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1215">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1887" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Forward
pricing rate agreement</i> means a written agreement negotiated
between a contractor and the Government to make certain rates available
during a specified period for use in pricing contracts or modifications.
These rates represent reasonable projections of specific costs that
are not easily estimated for, identified with, or generated by a
specific contract, contract end item, or task. These projections
may include rates for such things as labor, indirect costs, material
obsolescence and usage, spare parts provisioning, and material handling.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1219">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1893" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Forward pricing rate recommendation</i> means
a rate set unilaterally by the administrative contracting officer
for use by the Government in negotiations or other contract actions
when forward pricing rate agreement negotiations have not been completed
or when the contractor will not agree to a forward pricing rate
agreement.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1223">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1900" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Freight</i> means supplies,
goods, and transportable property.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1227">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1906" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Full
and open competition</i>, when used with respect to a contract action,
means that all responsible sources are permitted to compete.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1231">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1912" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General and administrative (G&amp;A) expense</i> means
any management, financial, and other expense which is incurred by
or allocated to a business unit and which is for the general management
and administration of the business unit as a whole. G&amp;A expense
does not include those management expenses whose beneficial or causal
relationship to cost objectives can be more directly measured by
a base other than a cost input base representing the total activity
of a business unit during a cost accounting period.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1239">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1924" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Governmentwide acquisition contract (GWAC)</i> means
a task-order or delivery-order contract for information technology established
by one agency for Governmentwide use that is operated-<ol id="d73e1586" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1245">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            By
an executive agent designated by the Office of Management and Budget
pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 11302(e);
or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1253">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Under a
delegation of procurement authority issued by the General Services
Administration (GSA) prior to August 7,1996, under authority granted
GSA by former section 40 U.S.C. 759,
repealed by Pub. L. 104-106. The Economy Act does not apply to orders
under a Governmentwide acquisition contract.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1260">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1958" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Governmentwide point of entry (GPE)</i> means
the single point where Government business opportunities greater
than $25,000, including synopses of proposed contract actions, solicitations,
and associated information, can be accessed electronically by the
public. The GPE is located at <xref href="https://www.sam.gov" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1268">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1967" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Head of the agency</i> (see "agency head").</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1272">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1973" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Head of the contracting activity</i> means the
official who has overall responsibility for managing the contracting
activity.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1283">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1988" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Historically black college or university</i> means
an institution determined by the Secretary of Education to meet
the requirements of <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">34 CFR 608.2</ph>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1290">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e1994" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">HUBZone</i> means a historically underutilized business
                  zone that is an area located within one or more qualified
                  census tracts, qualified nonmetropolitan counties, lands
                  within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation,
                  qualified base closure areas, redesignated
                     areas, governor-designated covered areas, or qualified
                     disaster
                     areas,
                  as defined in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 126.103</ph>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1297">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2001" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">HUBZone contract</i> means
a contract awarded to a Small Business Administration certified
"HUBZone small business concern" through any of the following procurement
methods:<ol id="d73e1641" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1303">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A sole-source
                           award to a HUBZone small business concern.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1308">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Set-aside
awards based on competition restricted to HUBZone small business
concerns.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1313">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Awards
to HUBZone small business concerns through full and open competition
after a price evaluation preference in favor of HUBZone small business
concerns.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1318">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Awards
based on a reserve for HUBZone small business concerns in a solicitation
for a multiple-award contract.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1322">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2051" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">HUBZone
                        small business concern</i> means a small business
                     concern that meets the requirements described in <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-126.200" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 126.200</xref>, is
                     certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) and
                     designated by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern in
                     the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-126.103" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 126.103</xref>).
                     SBA's designation also appears in
                     SAM.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1326">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2057" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Humanitarian or peacekeeping operation</i> means a military operation in support of the provision of humanitarian or foreign disaster assistance or in support of a peacekeeping operation under chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The term does not include routine training, force rotation, or stationing ((<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3015&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 3015(2)</xref>
                     
                   and 41 U.S.C. 153(2)).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1340">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2075" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">In writing</i>,
"writing," or "written" means any worded or numbered expression
that can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes
electronically transmitted and stored information.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1344">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2082" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Indirect
cost</i> means any cost not directly identified with a single final
cost objective, but identified with two or more final cost objectives
or with at least one intermediate cost objective.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1349">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2088" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Indirect
cost rate</i> means the percentage or dollar factor that expresses
the ratio of indirect expense incurred in a given period to direct
labor cost, manufacturing cost, or another appropriate base for
the same period (see also "final indirect cost rate").</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1353">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2094" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Ineligible</i> means excluded from Government
contracting (and subcontracting, if appropriate) pursuant to statutory,
Executive order, or regulatory authority other than this regulation
(48 CFR chapter 1)
and its implementing and supplementing regulations; for example,
pursuant to–<ol id="d73e1702" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1362">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           40 U.S.C. chapter 31,
subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction), and its related
statutes and implementing regulations;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1369">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           41 U.S.C. chapter 67,
Service Contract Labor Standards;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1376">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The Equal
Employment Opportunity Acts and Executive orders;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1381">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           41 U.S.C. chapter 65,
Contracts for Material, Supplies, Articles, and Equipment Exceeding
$10,000;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1388">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           41 U.S.C. chapter 83,
Buy American; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1395">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The Environmental
Protection Acts and Executive orders.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1399">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d13e1386" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Information and communication technology (ICT)</i> means
information technology and other equipment, systems, technologies,
or processes, for which the principal function is the creation,
manipulation, storage, display, receipt, or transmission of electronic
data and information, as well as any associated content. Examples
of ICT include but are not limited to the following: Computers and
peripheral equipment; information kiosks and transaction machines;
telecommunications equipment; customer premises equipment; multifunction
office machines; software; applications; websites; videos; and electronic
documents.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1403">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2171" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Information security</i> means
protecting information and information systems from unauthorized
access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction
in order to provide-<ol id="d73e1775" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1409">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Integrity, which means guarding
against improper information modification or destruction, and includes
ensuring information nonrepudiation and authenticity;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1414">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Confidentiality,
which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure,
including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary
information; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1419">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Availability,
which means ensuring timely and reliable access to, and use of,
information.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1423">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2209" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Information technology</i> means
any equipment, or interconnected system(s) or subsystem(s) of equipment,
that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation,
manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching,
interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by
the agency.<ol id="d73e1808" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1429">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For purposes of this definition,
equipment is used by an agency if the equipment is used by the agency
directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the agency
that requires-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e1818" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1435">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Its use; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1440">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  To a significant
extent, its use in the performance of a service or the furnishing
of a product.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1445">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The term
"information technology" includes computers, ancillary equipment
(including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices
necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed
to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software,
firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services),
and related resources.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1450">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The term
"information technology" does not include any equipment that-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e1857" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1456">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Is
acquired by a contractor incidental to a contract; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1461">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Contains
imbedded information technology that is used as an integral part
of the product, but the principal function of which is not the acquisition,
storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement,
control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception
of data or information. For example, HVAC (heating, ventilation,
and air conditioning) equipment, such as thermostats or temperature
control devices, and medical equipment where information technology
is integral to its operation, are not information technology.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1465">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2288" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Inherently governmental function</i> means,
as a matter of policy, a function that is so intimately related
to the public interest as to mandate performance by Government employees.
This definition is a policy determination, not a legal determination. An
inherently governmental function includes activities that require
either the exercise of discretion in applying Government authority,
or the making of value judgments in making decisions for the Government.
Governmental functions normally fall into two categories: the act
of governing, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> the discretionary exercise of Government
authority, and monetary transactions and entitlements.<ol id="d73e1886" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1474">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            An
inherently governmental function involves, among other things, the
interpretation and execution of the laws of the United States so
as to-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e1896" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1480">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Bind the United States to take
or not to take some action by contract, policy, regulation, authorization,
order, or otherwise;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1485">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Determine,
protect, and advance United States economic, political, territorial,
property, or other interests by military or diplomatic action, civil
or criminal judicial proceedings, contract management, or otherwise;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1490">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Significantly
affect the life, liberty, or property of private persons;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1495">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Commission,
appoint, direct, or control officers or employees of the United
States; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1500">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Exert ultimate
control over the acquisition, use, or disposition of the property,
real or personal, tangible or intangible, of the United States,
including the collection, control, or disbursement of Federal funds.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1505">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Inherently
governmental functions do not normally include gathering information
for or providing advice, opinions, recommendations, or ideas to
Government officials. They also do not include functions that are
primarily ministerial and internal in nature, such as building security,
mail operations, operation of cafeterias, housekeeping, facilities operations
and maintenance, warehouse operations, motor vehicle fleet management
operations, or other routine electrical or mechanical services.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1509">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2366" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Inspection</i> means examining and testing supplies
or services (including, when appropriate, raw materials, components, and
intermediate assemblies) to determine whether they conform to contract
requirements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1513">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2372" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insurance</i> means a contract
that provides that for a stipulated consideration, one party undertakes
to indemnify another against loss, damage, or liability arising
from an unknown or contingent event.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1517">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2378" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Interagency
acquisition</i> means a procedure by which an agency needing supplies
or services (the requesting agency) obtains them from another agency
(the servicing agency), by an assisted acquisition or a direct acquisition.
The term includes—<ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1523">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Acquisitions
under the Economy Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section1535&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C. 1535</xref>); and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1531">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Non-Economy
Act acquisitions completed under other statutory authorities, (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
General Services Administration Federal Supply Schedules in subpart
8.4 and Governmentwide acquisition contracts (GWACs)).</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1538">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2412" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Invoice</i> means a contractor’s bill or written
request for payment under the contract for supplies delivered or
services performed (see also "proper invoice").</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1542">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2418" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Irrevocable
letter of credit</i> means a written commitment by a federally insured
financial institution to pay all or part of a stated amount of money,
until the expiration date of the letter, upon the Government’s (the
beneficiary) presentation of a written demand for payment. Neither
the financial institution nor the offeror/contractor can revoke
or condition the letter of credit.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1547">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2424" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Labor
surplus area</i> means a geographical area identified by the Department
of Labor in accordance with <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">20 CFR part
654</ph>, subpart A, as an area of concentrated unemployment or
underemployment or an area of labor surplus.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1554">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2430" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Labor
surplus area concern</i> means a concern that together with its
first-tier subcontractors will perform substantially in labor surplus
areas. Performance is substantially in labor surplus areas if the
costs incurred under the contract on account of manufacturing, production,
or performance of appropriate services in labor surplus areas exceed
50 percent of the contract price.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1558">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2436" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Latent
defect</i> means a defect that exists at the time of acceptance
but cannot be discovered by a reasonable inspection.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1562">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2443" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Line item</i> means the basic structural element
in a procurement instrument that describes and organizes the required
product or service for pricing, delivery, inspection, acceptance,
invoicing, and payment. The use of the term "line item" includes "subline
item," as applicable.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1566">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2449" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Line item number</i> means
either a numeric or alphanumeric format to identify a line item.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1570">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d37e1559" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Major disaster</i>, as used in <xref href="6.208.dita#FAR_6_208" base="FAR_6_208" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">6.208</xref>, <xref href="13.201.dita#FAR_13_201" base="FAR_13_201" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">13.201</xref>, 13.500, <xref href="18.001.dita#FAR_18_001" base="FAR_18_001" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">18.001</xref>, <xref href="18.202.dita#FAR_18_202" base="FAR_18_202" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">18.202</xref>, <xref href="18.203.dita#FAR_18_203" base="FAR_18_203" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">18.203</xref>, and subpart <xref href="Subpart_26.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_26_2" base="FAR_Subpart_26_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">26.2</xref>,
means any natural catastrophe (including any hurricane, tornado,
storm, high water, winddriven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake,
volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, or drought),
or regardless of cause, any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part
of the United States, which, in the determination of the President,
causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant major
disaster assistance under the Stafford Act to supplement the efforts
and available resources of States, local governments, and disaster
relief organizations in alleviating the damage, loss, hardship,
or suffering caused thereby (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5122&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1596">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2486" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Major system</i> means that combination of elements
that will function together to produce the capabilities required
to fulfill a mission need. The elements may include hardware, equipment,
software, or any combination thereof, but exclude construction or
other improvements to real property. A system is a major system
if-<ol id="d73e2000" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1602">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The
Department of Defense is responsible for the system and the total
expenditures for research, development, test, and evaluation for
the system are estimated to be more than $185 million based on Fiscal
Year 2014 constant dollars or the eventual total expenditure for
the acquisition exceeds $835 million based on Fiscal Year 2014 constant
dollars (or any update of these thresholds based on a more recent
fiscal year, as specified in the DoD Instruction 5000.02, "Operation
of the Defense Acquisition System");</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1607">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A civilian agency is responsible for the system and total expenditures for the system are estimated to exceed <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$3 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 2.101, by—   a. In the definition “Major system”, removing from paragraph (2) “$2.5 million” and adding “$3 million” in its place; and?></ph> or the dollar threshold for a "major system" established by the agency pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-109, entitled "Major System Acquisitions," whichever is greater; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1612">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The system is designated a "major system" by the head of the agency responsible for the system (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3041&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 3041</xref> and <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section109&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 109</xref>).
                        </p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1622">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2528" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Make-or-buy program</i> means that part of a
contractor’s written plan for a contract identifying those major
items to be produced or work efforts to be performed in the prime
contractor’s facilities and those to be subcontracted.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1626">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2535" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Manufactured end product</i> means any end product
in product and service codes (PSC) 1000-9999, except-<ol id="d73e2042" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1632">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 5510,
Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1637">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Product
or service group (PSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1642">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSG 88,
Live Animals;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1647">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSG 89,
Subsistence;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1652">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 9410,
Crude Grades of Plant Materials;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1657">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 9430,
Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1662">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 9440,
Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1667">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 9610,
Ores;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1672">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 9620,
Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1677">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            PSC 9630,
Additive Metal Materials.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1681">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2635" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Market
research</i> means collecting and analyzing information about capabilities
within the market to satisfy agency needs.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1685">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2641" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Master
solicitation</i> means a document containing special clauses and
provisions that have been identified as essential for the acquisition
of a specific type of supply or service that is acquired repetitively.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1690">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2647" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">May</i> denotes the permissive. However, the
words "no person may..." mean that no person is required, authorized,
or permitted to do the act described.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1694">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2653" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Micro-purchase</i> means
an acquisition of supplies or services using simplified acquisition
procedures, the aggregate amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase
threshold.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1698">
                  <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>
                     <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2660" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Micro-purchase threshold</i> means $15,000, except it means-<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Revising the definitions of “Micro-purchase threshold” and “Simplified acquisition threshold”.?></ph>
                  <ol id="d73e2152" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1704">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">For acquisitions of construction subject to <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/40/3101" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. chapter 31</xref>, subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction), $2,000;</ph>
                        </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1712">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">For acquisitions of services subject to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title41-chapter67&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 67</xref>, Service Contract Labor Standards, $2,500;</ph>  </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1720">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">For acquisitions of supplies or services that, as determined by the head of the agency, are to be used to support a contingency operation; to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attack; to support a request from the Secretary of State or the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance pursuant to <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/22/2292" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">22 U.S.C. 2292</xref>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et seq.;</i> or to support response to an emergency or major disaster (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/42/5122" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>), as described in 13.201(g)(1), except for construction subject to <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/40/3101" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. chapter 31</xref>, subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/41/1903" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1903</xref>)—</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1741">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$25,000 in the case of any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, inside the United States; and</ph>
                              </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1746">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$40,000 in the case of any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, outside the United States; and</ph>
                              </p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1751">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">For acquisitions of supplies or services from institutions of higher education (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/20/1001" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">20 U.S.C. 1001(a)</xref>) or related or affiliated nonprofit entities, or from nonprofit research organizations or independent research institutes—</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1760">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$15,000; or</ph>
                              </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1765">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">A higher threshold, as determined appropriate by the head of the agency and consistent with clean audit findings under <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/31/7501" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C. chapter 75</xref>, Requirements for Single Audits; an internal institutional risk assessment; or State law.</ph>
                              </p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1769">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2741" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Minority
Institution</i> means an institution of higher education meeting
the requirements of Section 365(3) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1067k&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">20 U.S.C. 1067k</xref>),
including a Hispanic-serving institution of higher education, as
defined in Section 502(a) of the Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1101a&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">20 U.S.C. 1101a</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1779">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2753" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Multi-agency contract (MAC)</i> means a task-order
or delivery-order contract established by one agency for use by
Government agencies to obtain supplies and services, consistent
with the Economy Act (see <xref href="17.502-2.dita#FAR_17_502_2" base="FAR_17_502_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">17.502-2</xref>).
Multi-agency contracts include contracts for information technology
established pursuant to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section11314&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 11314</xref>(a)(2).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1789">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2765" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Multiple-award contract</i> means a contract
that is—<ol id="d73e2194" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1795">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A Multiple Award Schedule contract
issued by GSA (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, GSA Schedule Contract) or agencies granted
Multiple Award Schedule contract authority by GSA (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
Department of Veterans Affairs) as described in FAR part  38;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1806">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A multiple-award
task-order or delivery-order contract issued in accordance with
FAR subpart <xref href="Subpart_16.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_16_5" base="FAR_Subpart_16_5" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">16.5</xref>,
including Governmentwide acquisition contracts; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1814">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Any other
indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract entered into with
two or more sources pursuant to the same solicitation.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1818">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2814" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Must</i> (see "shall").</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1822">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2820" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">National
defense</i> means any activity related to programs for military
or atomic energy production or construction, military assistance
to any foreign nation, stockpiling, or space, except that for use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_11.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_11_6" base="FAR_Subpart_11_6" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">11.6</xref>,
see the definition in <xref href="11.601.dita#FAR_11_601" base="FAR_11_601" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">11.601</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1832">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2832" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Neutral person</i> means an impartial third
party, who serves as a mediator, fact finder, or arbitrator, or
otherwise functions to assist the parties to resolve the issues
in controversy. A neutral person may be a permanent or temporary
officer or employee of the Federal Government or any other individual
who is acceptable to the parties. A neutral person must have no official,
financial, or personal conflict of interest with respect to the
issues in controversy, unless the interest is fully disclosed in
writing to all parties and all parties agree that the neutral person
may serve (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section583&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">5 U.S.C. 583</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1839">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2841" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Nondevelopmental item</i> means—<ol id="d73e2257" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1845">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Any previously
developed item of supply used exclusively for governmental purposes
by a Federal agency, a State or local government, or a foreign government
with which the United States has a mutual defense cooperation agreement;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1850">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Any item
described in paragraph (1) of this definition that requires only
minor modification or modifications of a type customarily available
in the commercial marketplace in order to meet the requirements
of the procuring department or agency; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1855">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Any item
of supply being produced that does not meet the requirements of
paragraphs (1) or (2) solely because the item is not yet in use.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1859">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2875" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Novation agreement</i> means a legal instrument-<ol id="d73e2290" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1865">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Executed
by the-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e2300" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1871">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Contractor (transferor);</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1876">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Successor
in interest (transferee); and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1881">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Government;
and</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1886">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            By which,
among other things, the transferor guarantees performance of the
contract, the transferee assumes all obligations under the contract,
and the Government recognizes the transfer of the contract and related
assets.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1891">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2935" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Offer</i> means a response
to a solicitation that, if accepted, would bind the offeror to perform
the resultant contract. Responses to invitations for bids (sealed
bidding) are offers called "bids" or "sealed bids"; responses to
requests for proposals (negotiation) are offers called "proposals";
however, responses to requests for quotations (simplified acquisition)
are "quotations," not offers. For unsolicited proposals, see subpart <xref href="Subpart_15.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_15_6" base="FAR_Subpart_15_6" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">15.6</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1898">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2944" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Offeror</i> means offeror or bidder.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1902">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2950" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization</i> means
the Office of Small Business Programs when referring to the Department
of Defense.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1906">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2956" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">OMB Uniform Guidance at 2
CFR part 200</i> is the abbreviated title for Uniform Administrative
Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal
Awards (<ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">2 CFR part 200</ph>), which supersedes
OMB Circulars A-21, A-87, A-89, A-102, A-110, A-122, and A-133,
and the guidance in Circular A-50 on Audit Followup.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1913">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2962" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Option</i> means a unilateral right in a contract
by which, for a specified time, the Government may elect to purchase
additional supplies or services called for by the contract, or may
elect to extend the term of the contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1917">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2968" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Organizational
conflict of interest</i> means that because of other activities
or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially
unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government,
or the person’s objectivity in performing the contract work is or
might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive
advantage.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1921">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e2975" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Outlying areas</i> means-<ol id="d73e2367" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1927">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Commonwealths</p>
                        <ol id="d73e2377" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1933">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Puerto
Rico.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1938">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  The Northern
Mariana Islands;</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1943">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Territories</i>.</p>
                        <ol id="d73e2410" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1951">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  American
Samoa.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1956">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Guam.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1961">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  U.S.
Virgin Islands; and</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1966">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Minor
outlying islands</i>.</p>
                        <ol id="d73e2452" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1974">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Baker Island.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1979">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Howland
Island.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1984">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Jarvis
Island.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1989">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Johnston
Atoll.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1994">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Kingman
Reef.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e1999">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Midway
Islands.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2004">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Navassa
Island.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2009">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Palmyra
Atoll.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2014">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Wake Atoll.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2018">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3153" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Overtime</i> means time worked by a contractor’s
employee in excess of the employee’s normal workweek.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2022">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3159" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Overtime premium</i> means the difference between
the contractor’s regular rate of pay to an employee for the shift
involved and the higher rate paid for overtime. It does not include
shift premium, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> the difference between the contractor's
regular rate of pay to an employee and the higher rate paid for
extra-pay-shift work.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2047">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3196" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Partial termination</i> means the termination
of a part, but not all, of the work that has not been completed
and accepted under a contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2052">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3202" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Past
performance</i> means an offeror’s or contractor’s performance on
active and physically completed contracts (see <xref href="4.804-4.dita#FAR_4_804_4" base="FAR_4_804_4" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">4.804-4</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2059">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3211" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Performance-based acquisition (PBA)</i> means
an acquisition structured around the results to be achieved as opposed
to the manner by which the work is to be performed.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2063">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3217" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Performance Work Statement (PWS)</i> means a
statement of work for performance-based acquisitions that describes
the required results in clear, specific and objective terms with
measurable outcomes.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2067">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3223" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Personal property</i> means
property of any kind or interest in it except real property, records
of the Federal Government, and naval vessels of the following categories:<ol id="d73e2591" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2073">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Battleships;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2078">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Cruisers;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2083">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Aircraft
carriers;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2088">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Destroyers;
and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2093">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Submarines.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2097">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3278" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Personal services contract</i> means a contract
that, by its express terms or as administered, makes the contractor
personnel appear to be, in effect, Government employees (see <xref href="37.104.dita#FAR_37_104" base="FAR_37_104" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">37.104</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2104">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3287" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Plant
clearance officer</i> means an authorized representative of the
contracting officer, appointed in accordance with agency procedures,
responsible for screening, redistributing, and disposing of contractor
inventory from a contractor’s plant or work site. The term "Contractor’s
plant" includes, but is not limited to, Government-owned contractor-operated
plants, Federal installations, and Federal and non-Federal industrial
operations, as may be required under the scope of the contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2108">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3293" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Pollution prevention</i> means any practice
that-<ol class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2114">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol id="d73e2659" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2119">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Reduces
the amount of any hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant
entering any waste stream or otherwise released into the environment
(including fugitive emissions) prior to recycling, treatment, or
disposal; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2124">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Reduces
the hazards to public health and the environment associated with
the release of such substances, pollutants, and contaminants;</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2129">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Reduces
or eliminates the creation of pollutants through increased efficiency
in the use of raw materials, energy, water, or other resources;
or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2134">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Protects
natural resources by conservation.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2138">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3350" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Power
of attorney</i> means the authority given one person or corporation
to act for and obligate another, as specified in the instrument
creating the power; in corporate suretyship, an instrument under
seal that appoints an attorney-in-fact to act in behalf of a surety
company in signing bonds (see also "attorney-in-fact" at <xref href="28.001.dita#FAR_28_001" base="FAR_28_001" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">28.001</xref>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2145">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3359" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Preaward
survey</i> means an evaluation of a prospective contractor’s capability
to perform a proposed contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2149">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3366" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Preponderance
of the evidence</i> means proof by information that, compared with
that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue
is more probably true than not.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2153">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3372" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Pricing</i> means
the process of establishing a reasonable amount or amounts to be
paid for supplies or services.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2158">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3378" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Principal</i> means
an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary
management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity
(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, general manager; plant manager; head of a division
or business segment; and similar positions).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2165">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3387" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Procurement</i> (see
"acquisition").</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2169">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3393" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Procuring activity</i> means
a component of an executive agency having a significant acquisition
function and designated as such by the head of the agency. Unless
agency regulations specify otherwise, the term "procuring activity"
is synonymous with "contracting activity."</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2173">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3399" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Products</i> has
the same meaning as "supplies."</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2177">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3406" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Projected
average loss</i> means the estimated long-term average loss per
period for periods of comparable exposure to risk of loss.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2181">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3412" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Proper invoice</i> means an invoice that meets
the minimum standards specified in <xref href="32.905.dita#FAR_32_905" base="FAR_32_905" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">32.905</xref>(b).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2188">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3421" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Purchase order</i>, when issued by the Government,
means an offer by the Government to buy supplies or services, including construction
and research and development, upon specified terms and conditions,
using simplified acquisition procedures.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2192">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3427" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Qualification
requirement</i> means a Government requirement for testing or other
quality assurance demonstration that must be completed before award
of a contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2196">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3433" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Qualified products list (QPL)</i> means
a list of products that have been examined, tested, and have satisfied
all applicable qualification requirements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2200">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d7e2204" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Qualifying offeror</i>, as used in <xref href="13.106-1.dita#FAR_13_106_1" base="FAR_13_106_1" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">13.106-1</xref> and <xref href="15.304.dita#FAR_15_304" base="FAR_15_304" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">15.304</xref>, means an offeror that is determined to be a responsible source, submits a technically acceptable proposal that conforms to the requirements of the solicitation, and the contracting officer has no reason to believe would be likely to offer other than fair and reasonable pricing (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3206&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 3206(c)(4)</xref>).
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2213">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3439" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Receiving report</i> means written evidence
that indicates Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services
performed (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_46.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_46_6" base="FAR_Subpart_46_6" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">46.6</xref>).
Receiving reports must meet the requirements of <xref href="32.905.dita#FAR_32_905" base="FAR_32_905" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">32.905</xref>(c).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2224">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3452" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Recovered material</i> means waste materials and by-products recovered or diverted from solid waste, but the term does not include those materials and by-products generated from, and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6903&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 6903</xref>). </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2234">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3464" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Registered
in the System for Award Management (SAM)</i> means that—<ol id="d73e2771" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2240">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The
Contractor has entered all mandatory information, including the
unique entity identifier and the Electronic Funds Transfer indicator
(if applicable), the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code,
as well as data required by the Federal Funding Accountability and
Transparency Act of 2006 (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_4.14.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_14" base="FAR_Subpart_4_14" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">4.14</xref>),
into SAM;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2248">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The Contractor
has completed the Core, Assertions, Representations and Certifications,
and Points of Contact sections of the registration in SAM;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2253">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The Government
has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of
the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS). The contractor will be required to provide consent
for TIN validation to the Government as a part of the SAM registration
process; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2258">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The Government
has marked the record Active.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2284">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3549" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Requesting agency</i> means the agency that
has the requirement for an interagency acquisition.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2288">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3555" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Residual value</i> means the proceeds, less
removal and disposal costs, if any, realized upon disposition of
a tangible capital asset. It usually is measured by the net proceeds
from the sale or other disposition of the asset, or its fair value
if the asset is traded in on another asset. The estimated residual
value is a current forecast of the residual value.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2292">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3561" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Responsible
audit agency</i> means the agency that is responsible for performing
all required contract audit services at a business unit.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2296">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3567" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Responsible prospective contractor</i> means
a contractor that meets the standards in <xref href="9.104.dita#FAR_9_104" base="FAR_9_104" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.104</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2234">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e3250" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reverse auction</i>
                  means the process for obtaining pricing, usually supported by an electronic tool, in which offerors see competing offerors' price(s), without disclosure of the competing offerors' identity, and have the opportunity to submit lower priced offers until the close of the auction.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2303">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3576" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Scrap</i> means
personal property that has no value except its basic metallic, mineral,
or organic content.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2307">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3582" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Segment</i> means one of two
or more divisions, product departments, plants, or other subdivisions
of an organization reporting directly to a home office, usually
identified with responsibility for profit and/or producing a product
or service. The term includes-<ol id="d73e2865" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2313">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Government-owned contractor-operated
(GOCO) facilities; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2318">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Joint ventures
and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the organization
has-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e2884" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2324">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  A majority ownership; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2329">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Less than
a majority ownership, but over which it exercises control.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2333">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3631" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Self-insurance</i> means the assumption or retention
of the risk of loss by the contractor, whether voluntarily or involuntarily. Self-insurance
includes the deductible portion of purchased insurance.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2338">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3637" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Senior procurement executive</i> means the individual
appointed pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 1702(c) who
is responsible for management direction of the acquisition system
of the executive agency, including implementation of the unique
acquisition policies, regulations, and standards of the executive
agency.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2345">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3646" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concern</i> means a small business concern–  <ol id="d73e2920" class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2351">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol id="d73e2930" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2357">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                  Not less than 51 percent of which is owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2362">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                  The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran; or</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2337">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                            A small business concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program in accordance with 13 CFR part 128 (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_19.14.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_14" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">19.14</xref>).</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2367">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Service-disabled veteran</i>, as used in this definition, means a veteran as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section101(2)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">38 U.S.C. 101(2)</xref>, with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section101(16)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">38 U.S.C. 101(16)</xref>, and who is registered in the Beneficiary Identification and Records Locator Subsystem, or successor system that is maintained by the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Veterans Benefits Administration, as a service-disabled veteran.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2395">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e3284" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program</i> means an SDVOSB concern that— <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2404">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                            Effective January 1, 2024, is designated in the System for Award Management (SAM) as certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) in accordance with 13 CFR 128.300; or</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2409">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                            Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern in SAM and submitted a complete application for certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2413">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e3307" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) Program</i> means a program that authorizes contracting officers to limit competition, including award on a sole-source basis, to SDVOSB concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program. </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2377">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3700" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Servicing agency</i> means the agency that will
conduct an assisted acquisition on behalf of the requesting agency.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2381">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3707" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Shall</i> denotes the imperative.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2385">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3713" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Shipment</i> means freight transported or to
be transported.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2389">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3719" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Shop drawings</i> means drawings
submitted by the construction contractor or a subcontractor at any
tier or required under a construction contract, showing in detail
either or both of the following:<ol id="d73e2980" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2395">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The proposed
fabrication and assembly of structural elements.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2400">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The installation
(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> form, fit, and attachment details) of materials or
equipment.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2407">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3749" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Should</i> means an expected
course of action or policy that is to be followed unless inappropriate
for a particular circumstance.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2411">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3755" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Signature</i> or
"signed" means the discrete, verifiable symbol of an individual
that, when affixed to a writing with the knowledge and consent of
the individual, indicates a present intention to authenticate the
writing. This includes electronic symbols.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2415">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3762" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Simplified
acquisition procedures</i> means the methods prescribed in part  13
for making purchases of supplies or services.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2419"> <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?> <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3771" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Simplified acquisition threshold</i> means $350,000, except for—<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Revising the definitions of “Micro-purchase threshold” and “Simplified acquisition threshold”.?></ph> <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2425"> <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">Acquisitions of supplies or services that, as determined by the head of the agency, are to be used to support a contingency operation; to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to support a request from the Secretary of State or the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance pursuant to <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/22/2292" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">22 U.S.C. 2292</xref> <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et seq.;</i> or to support response to an emergency or major disaster (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/42/5122" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>), (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/41/1903" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1903</xref>), the term means—</ph> </p><ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2440"> <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$1 million for any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, inside the United States; and</ph> </p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2445"> <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$2 million for any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, outside the United States; and</ph> </p></li></ol></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2450"> <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">Acquisitions of supplies or services that, as determined by the head of the agency, are to be used to support a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/10/3015" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 3015</xref>), the term means $650,000 for any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, outside the United States.</ph> </p></li></ol> </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2457">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3834" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Single, Governmentwide point of entry</i>, means
the one point of entry to be designated by the Administrator of
OFPP that will allow the private sector to electronically access
procurement opportunities Governmentwide.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2462">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3840" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small
                     business concern</i>— <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2468">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Means
                              a concern, including its affiliates, that is
                              independently owned and operated, not dominant in
                              its field of operation, and qualified as a small
                              business under the criteria and size standards in
                                 <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/part-121" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR part
                                 121</xref> (see <xref href="19.102.dita#FAR_19_102" base="FAR_19_102" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">19.102</xref>).
                        </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2479">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Affiliates</i>, as used in this definition, means
                           business concerns, one of whom directly or indirectly
                           controls or has the power to control the others, or a
                           third party or parties control or have the power to
                           control the others. In determining whether
                           affiliation exists, consideration is given to all
                           appropriate factors including common ownership,
                           common management, and contractual relationships. SBA
                           determines affiliation based on the factors set forth
                           at 13 CFR 121.103.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2485">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3852" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small business subcontractor</i> means a concern
that does not exceed the size standard for the North American Industry Classification
Systems code that the prime contractor determines best describes
the product or service being acquired by the subcontract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2489">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3859" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small Business Teaming Arrangement</i>—<ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2495">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means an arrangement
where–</p>
                        <ol id="d73e3023" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2501">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Two or more small business concerns
have formed a joint venture; or</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2506">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  A small
business offeror agrees with one or more other small business concerns
to have them act as its subcontractors under a specified Government
contract. A Small Business Teaming Arrangement between the offeror and
its small business subcontractor(s) exists through a written agreement
between the parties that–</p>
                              <ol id="d73e3042" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2512">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                        Is specifically referred to as
a "Small Business Teaming Arrangement"; and</p>
                                 </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2517">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                        Sets forth
the different responsibilities, roles, and percentages (or other
allocations) of work as it relates to the acquisition;</p>
                                 </li></ol>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2522">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol id="d73e3072" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2527">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  For
civilian agencies, may include two business concerns in a mentor-protégé
relationship when both the mentor and the protégé are small or the
protégé is small and the concerns have received an exception to
affiliation pursuant to <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 121.103(h)(3)(ii)
or (iii)</ph>.</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2535">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 For DoD, may include two business concerns in a mentor-protégé relationship in the DoD Mentor-Protégé Program (see <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4902&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 4902</xref>) when both the mentor and the protégé are small. There is no exception to joint venture size affiliation for offers received from teaming arrangements under the DoD Mentor-Protégé Program; and
                              </p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2543">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            See 13
CFR 121.103(b)(9) regarding the exception to affiliation for offers
received from Small Business Teaming Arrangements in the case of
a solicitation of offers for a bundled contract with a reserve.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2547">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e3961" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small disadvantaged business concern</i>
                  consistent with 13
                  CFR
                  124.1001,
                  means a small business concern under the size standard
                  applicable to the acquisition, that:<ol id="d73e3112" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2556">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Is at least 51 percent
                        unconditionally and directly owned (as defined at 13 CFR
                        124.105) by—</p>
                        <ol id="d73e3122" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2562">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  One or more socially
                              disadvantaged (as defined at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 124.103</ph>) and
                              economically disadvantaged (as defined at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 124.104</ph>) individuals
                              who are citizens of the United States; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2573">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Each individual
                              claiming economic disadvantage has a net worth not
                              exceeding the
                              threshold at 13 CFR
                              124.104(c)(2)
                              after taking into account the applicable
                              exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2);
                              and</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2578">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            The management and daily
                        business operations of which are controlled (as defined
                        at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 124.106</ph>) by individuals
                        who meet the criteria in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of
                        this definition.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2585">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4009" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Sole source acquisition</i> means a contract
for the purchase of supplies or services that is entered into or
proposed to be entered into by an agency after soliciting and negotiating
with only one source.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2589">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4015" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Solicitation</i> means any
request to submit offers or quotations to the Government. Solicitations
under sealed bid procedures are called "invitations for bids." Solicitations
under negotiated procedures are called "requests for proposals."
Solicitations under simplified acquisition procedures may require
submission of either a quotation or an offer.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2593">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4022" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Solicitation
provision or provision</i> means a term or condition used only in
solicitations and applying only before contract award.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2597">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4028" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Source selection information</i> means any of
the following information that is prepared for use by an agency
for the purpose of evaluating a bid or proposal to enter into an
agency procurement contract, if that information has not been previously made
available to the public or disclosed publicly:<ol id="d73e3166" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2603">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Bid prices
submitted in response to an agency invitation for bids, or lists
of those bid prices before bid opening.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2608">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Proposed
costs or prices submitted in response to an agency solicitation,
or lists of those proposed costs or prices.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2613">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Source
selection plans.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2618">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Technical
evaluation plans.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2623">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Technical
evaluations of proposals.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2628">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Cost or
price evaluations of proposals.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2633">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Competitive
range determinations that identify proposals that have a reasonable
chance of being selected for award of a contract.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2638">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Rankings
of bids, proposals, or competitors.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2643">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Reports
and evaluations of source selection panels, boards, or advisory
councils.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2648">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Other
information marked as "Source Selection Information-See FAR <xref href="#FAR_2_101" base="FAR_2_101" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> and <xref href="3.104.dita#FAR_3_104" base="FAR_3_104" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">3.104</xref>" based on a case-by-case
determination by the head of the agency or the contracting officer,
that its disclosure would jeopardize the integrity or successful
completion of the Federal agency procurement to which the information
relates.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2658">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4134" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special competency</i> means
a special or unique capability, including qualitative aspects, developed
incidental to the primary functions of the Federally Funded Research
and Development Centers to meet some special need.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2662">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4140" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special
test equipment</i> means either single or multipurpose integrated
test units engineered, designed, fabricated, or modified to accomplish
special purpose testing in performing a contract. It consists of
items or assemblies of equipment including foundations and similar
improvements necessary for installing special test equipment, and
standard or general purpose items or components that are interconnected
and interdependent so as to become a new functional entity for special
testing purposes. Special test equipment does not include material,
special tooling, real property, and equipment items used for general
testing purposes or property that with relatively minor expense
can be made suitable for general purpose use.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2666">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4146" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special
tooling</i> means jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns, taps, gauges,
and all components of these items including foundations and similar
improvements necessary for installing special tooling, and which
are of such a specialized nature that without substantial modification
or alteration their use is limited to the development or production
of particular supplies or parts thereof or to the performance of
particular services. Special tooling does not include material,
special test equipment, real property, equipment, machine tools,
or similar capital items.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2671">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4153" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">State and local taxes</i> means
taxes levied by the States, the District of Columbia, outlying areas
of the United States, or their political subdivisions.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2675">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4159" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Statement of Objectives (SOO)</i> means a Government-prepared
document incorporated into the solicitation that states the overall
performance objectives. It is used in solicitations when the Government
intends to provide the maximum flexibility to each offeror to propose
an innovative approach.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2679">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4165" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subline item</i> means a subset
of a line item.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2683">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4171" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Substantial evidence</i> means
information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular
act or omission has occurred.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2687">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4177" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Substantially
as follows</i> or "substantially the same as," when used in the
prescription and introductory text of a provision or clause, means
that authorization is granted to prepare and utilize a variation
of that provision or clause to accommodate requirements that are
peculiar to an individual acquisition; provided that the variation
includes the salient features of the FAR provision or clause, and
is not inconsistent with the intent, principle, and substance of
the FAR provision or clause or related coverage of the subject matter.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2691">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4183" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Supplemental agreement</i> means a contract
modification that is accomplished by the mutual action of the parties.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2695">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4190" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Supplies</i> means all property except land
or interest in land. It includes (but is not limited to) public
works, buildings, and facilities; ships, floating equipment, and
vessels of every character, type, and description, together with
parts and accessories; aircraft and aircraft parts, accessories,
and equipment; machine tools; and the alteration or installation
of any of the foregoing.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2699">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4196" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Supporting a diplomatic or
consular mission</i> means performing outside the United States
under a contract administered by Federal agency personnel who are
subject to the direction of a Chief of Mission.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2703">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4202" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Surety</i> means
an individual or corporation legally liable for the debt, default,
or failure of a principal to satisfy a contractual obligation. The
types of sureties referred to are as follows:<ol id="d73e3304" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2709">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            An individual
surety is one person, as distinguished from a business entity, who
is liable for the entire penal amount of the bond.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2714">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A corporate
surety is licensed under various insurance laws and, under its charter,
has legal power to act as surety for others.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2719">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A cosurety
is one of two or more sureties that are jointly liable for the penal
sum of the bond. A limit of liability for each surety may be stated.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2723">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4238" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Surplus property</i> means excess personal property
not required by any Federal agency as determined by the Administrator of
the General Services Administration (GSA). (See <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">41
CFR 102-36.40</ph>).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2676">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e3925" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Suspending and debarring official</i> means—
                  <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2685">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           An agency head; or
                        </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2691">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           A designee authorized by the agency head to impose a suspension and/or a debarment.
                        </p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2730">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4244" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Suspension</i> means action taken by a suspending and debarring official under <xref href="9.407.dita#FAR_9_407" base="FAR_9_407" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">9.407</xref> to disqualify a contractor temporarily from Government contracting and Government-approved subcontracting; a contractor that is “suspended” is disqualified.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2738">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4254" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Sustainable acquisition</i> means acquiring products and services in order to create and maintain conditions-<ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2744">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                             Under which humans and nature can exist in productive harmony; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2749">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                             That permit fulfilling the social, economic, and other requirements of present and future generations.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2749">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d1e3777" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Sustainable products and services</i> means products and services that are subject to and meet the following applicable statutory mandates and directives for purchasing: <ol class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2758">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Statutory purchasing programs</i>. </p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2767">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                   Products containing recovered material designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6962&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 6962</xref>) (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-40/part-247" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">40 CFR part 247</xref>) (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.epa.gov/smm/comprehensive-procurement-guideline-cpg-program#products" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.epa.gov/​smm/​comprehensive-procurement-guideline-cpg-program#products</xref>
                                 </i>). </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2783">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                   Energy- and water-efficient products that are ENERGY STAR® certified or Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP)-designated products (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8259&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 8259b</xref>) (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-10/part-436/subpart-C" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">10 CFR part 436, subpart C</xref>) ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.energy.gov/eere/femp/search-energy-efficient-products" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.energy.gov/​eere/​femp/​search-energy-efficient-products</xref>
                                 </i> and <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.energystar.gov/products?s=mega" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.energystar.gov/​products?​s=​mega</xref>
                                 </i>). </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2803">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                   Biobased products meeting the content requirement of the U.S. Department of Agriculture under the BioPreferred® program (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8102&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">7 U.S.C. 8102</xref>) (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-7/part-3201" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">7 CFR part 3201</xref>) ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.biopreferred.gov" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.biopreferred.gov</xref>
                                 </i>). </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2819">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                                   Acceptable chemicals, products, and manufacturing processes listed under EPA's Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) program, which ensures a safe and smooth transition away from substances that contribute to the depletion of stratospheric ozone (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7671&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 7671l</xref>) (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-40/part-82/subpart-G" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">40 CFR part 82, subpart G</xref>) (<xref href="https://www.epa.gov/snap" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.epa.gov/​snap</xref>). </p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2834">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Required EPA purchasing programs.</i>
                        </p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2842">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                   WaterSense® labeled (water efficient) products and services (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.epa.gov/watersense/watersense-products" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.epa.gov/​watersense/​watersense-products</xref>
                                 </i>). </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2852">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                   Safer Choice-certified products (products that contain safer chemical ingredients) (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.epa.gov/saferchoice/products" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.epa.gov/​saferchoice/​products</xref>
                                 </i>). </p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d76e2862">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                   Products and services that meet EPA Recommendations of Specifications, Standards, and Ecolabels in effect as of October 2023 (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                    <xref href="https://www.epa.gov/greenerproducts/recommendations-specifications-standards-and-ecolabels-federal-purchasing" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">https://www.epa.gov/​greenerproducts/​recommendations-specifications-standards-and-ecolabels-federal-purchasing</xref>
                                 </i>). </p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2753">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4281" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">System
for Award Management (SAM)</i> means the primary Government repository
for prospective Federal awardee and Federal awardee information
and the centralized Government system for certain contracting, grants,
and other assistance-related processes. It includes—<ol id="d73e3356" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2759">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Data collected
from prospective Federal awardees required for the conduct of business
with the Government;</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2764">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Prospective
contractor-submitted annual representations and certifications in
accordance with FAR subpart <xref href="Subpart_4.12.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_12" base="FAR_Subpart_4_12" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">4.12</xref>; and</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2772">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Identification
of those parties excluded from receiving Federal contracts, certain
subcontracts, and certain types of Federal financial and non-financial
assistance and benefits.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2776">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4320" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Task
order</i> means an order for services placed against an established
contract or with Government sources.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2780">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4326" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Taxpayer
Identification Number (TIN)</i> means the number required by the
IRS to be used by the offeror in reporting income tax and other
returns. The TIN may be either a Social Security Number or an Employer
Identification Number.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2784">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4333" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Technical data</i> means recorded
information (regardless of the form or method of the recording)
of a scientific or technical nature (including computer databases
and computer software documentation). This term does not include
computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing,
or management data or other information incidental to contract administration.
The term includes recorded information of a scientific or technical
nature that is included in computer databases (see 41 U.S.C. 116).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2791">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4345" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Terminated portion of the contract</i> means
the portion of a contract that the contractor is not to perform
following a partial termination. For construction contracts that
have been completely terminated for convenience, it means the entire
contract, notwithstanding the completion of, and payment for, individual
items of work before termination.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2795">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4351" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Termination
for convenience</i> means the exercise of the Government’s right
to completely or partially terminate performance of work under a
contract when it is in the Government’s interest.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2799">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4357" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Termination
for default</i> means the exercise of the Government’s right to
completely or partially terminate a contract because of the contractor’s
actual or anticipated failure to perform its contractual obligations.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2803">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4363" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Termination inventory</i> means any property
purchased, supplied, manufactured, furnished, or otherwise acquired
for the performance of a contract subsequently terminated and properly
allocable to the terminated portion of the contract. It includes
Government-furnished property. It does not include any facilities,
material, special test equipment, or special tooling that are subject
to a separate contract or to a special contract requirement governing
their use or disposition.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2807">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4369" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unallowable cost</i> means
any cost that, under the provisions of any pertinent law, regulation,
or contract, cannot be included in prices, cost-reimbursements,
or settlements under a Government contract to which it is allocable.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2811">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4376" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unique and innovative concept</i>, when used
relative to an unsolicited research proposal, means that-<ol id="d73e3424" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2817">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            In
the opinion and to the knowledge of the Government evaluator, the
meritorious proposal-</p>
                        <ol id="d73e3434" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2823">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Is the product of original thinking
submitted confidentially by one source;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2828">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Contains
new, novel, or changed concepts, approaches, or methods;</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2833">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Was not
submitted previously by another; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2838">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Is not
otherwise available within the Federal Government.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2843">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            In this
context, the term does not mean that the source has the sole capability
of performing the research.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2848">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4442" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unique
entity identifier</i> means a number or other identifier used to
identify a specific commercial, nonprofit, or Government entity.
See <xref href="https://www.sam.gov" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">www.sam.gov</xref> for the designated entity
for establishing unique entity identifiers.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2855">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4451" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">United
States</i>, when used in a geographic sense, means the 50 States
and the District of Columbia, except as follows:<ol id="d73e3487" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2861">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_3.10.dita#FAR_Subpart_3_10" base="FAR_Subpart_3_10" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">3.10</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="3.1001.dita#FAR_3_1001" base="FAR_3_1001" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">3.1001</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2872">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.8.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_8" base="FAR_Subpart_22_8" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.8</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.801.dita#FAR_22_801" base="FAR_22_801" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.801</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2883">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.10.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_10" base="FAR_Subpart_22_10" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.10</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.1001.dita#FAR_22_1001" base="FAR_22_1001" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.1001</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2894">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.13.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_13" base="FAR_Subpart_22_13" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.13</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.1301.dita#FAR_22_1301" base="FAR_22_1301" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.1301</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2905">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.16.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_16" base="FAR_Subpart_22_16" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.16</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.1601.dita#FAR_22_1601" base="FAR_22_1601" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.1601</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2916">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.17.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_17" base="FAR_Subpart_22_17" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.17</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.1702.dita#FAR_22_1702" base="FAR_22_1702" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.1702</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2927">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.18.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_18" base="FAR_Subpart_22_18" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.18</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.1801.dita#FAR_22_1801" base="FAR_22_1801" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.1801</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2938">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_22.19.dita#FAR_Subpart_22_19" base="FAR_Subpart_22_18" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.19</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="22.1901.dita#FAR_22_1901" base="FAR_22_1801" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">22.1901</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2949">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                            For use in subpart <xref href="Subpart_23.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_23_1" base="FAR_Subpart_22_18" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">23.1</xref>, see the definition at <xref href="23.101.dita#FAR_23_101" base="FAR_23_101" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">23.101</xref>. </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2960">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in <xref href="Part_25.dita#FAR_Part_25" base="i1090283" outputclass="fm:Part" class="- topic/xref ">part  25</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="25.003.dita#FAR_25_003" base="FAR_25_003" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2971">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(11)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in <xref href="Part_27.dita#FAR_Part_27" base="i1090283" outputclass="fm:Part" class="- topic/xref ">part  27</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="27.001.dita#FAR_27_001" base="FAR_27_001" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">27.001</xref>.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2983">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(12)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in subpart <xref href="Subpart_47.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_47_4" base="FAR_Subpart_47_4" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">47.4</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="47.401.dita#FAR_47_401" base="FAR_47_401" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">47.401</xref>.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2993">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4642" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unsolicited proposal</i> means a written proposal
for a new or innovative idea that is submitted to an agency on the
initiative of the offeror for the purpose of obtaining a contract
with the Government, and that is not in response to a request for
proposals, Broad Agency Announcement, Small Business Innovation
Research topic, Small Business Technology Transfer Research topic,
Program Research and Development Announcement, or any other Government-initiated
solicitation or program.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e2997">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4649" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Value engineering</i> means
an analysis of the functions of a program, project, system, product,
item of equipment, building, facility, service, or supply of an
executive agency, performed by qualified agency or contractor personnel,
directed at improving performance, reliability, quality, safety,
and life-cycle costs (41 U.S.C. 1711).
For use in the clause at <xref href="52.248-2.dita#FAR_52_248_2" base="FAR_52_248_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="52.248-2.dita#FAR_52_248_2" base="FAR_52_248_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>(b).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3010">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="wer4565567" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Value engineering change proposal (VECP)</i>—<ol id="d73e3690" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3016">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Means
a proposal that–</p>
                        <ol id="d73e3700" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3022">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Requires a change to the instant
contract to implement; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3027">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Results
in reducing the overall projected cost to the agency without impairing
essential functions or characteristics, provided, that it does not
involve a change–</p>
                              <ol id="d73e3719" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3033">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                        In deliverable end item quantities
only;</p>
                                 </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3038">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                        In research
and development (R&amp;D) items or R&amp;D test quantities that
are due solely to results of previous testing under the instant
contract; or</p>
                                 </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3043">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                        To the
contract type only.</p>
                                 </li></ol>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3048">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            For use
in the clauses at-</p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3054">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 <xref href="52.248-2.dita#FAR_52_248_2" base="FAR_52_248_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="52.248-2.dita#FAR_52_248_2" base="FAR_52_248_2" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>(b); and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3064">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 <xref href="52.248-3.dita#FAR_52_248_3" base="FAR_52_248_3" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.248-3</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="52.248-3.dita#FAR_52_248_3" base="FAR_52_248_3" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">52.248-3</xref>(b).</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3073">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4775" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Veteran-owned small business
                  concern</i> means a small business concern—<ol id="d73e3762" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3079">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                            Not less than 51 percent of which is owned and controlled by one or more veterans (as defined at <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section101(2)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim" scope="external" format="html" class="- topic/xref ">38 U.S.C. 101(2)</xref>) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3087">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                            The management and daily
                        business operations of which are controlled by one or
                        more veterans.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3091">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4805" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Virgin
material</i> means—<ol id="d73e3789" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3097">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                            Previously unused raw
                        material, including previously unused copper, aluminum,
                        lead, zinc, iron, other metal or metal ore; or </p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3102">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            Any undeveloped
resource that is, or with new technology will become, a source of
raw materials.</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3106">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4833" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Voluntary
consensus standards</i> means common and repeated use of rules,
conditions, guidelines or characteristics for products, or related
processes and production methods and related management systems.
Voluntary Consensus Standards are developed or adopted by domestic
and international voluntary consensus standard making bodies (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and ASTM-International).
See OMB Circular A-119.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3113">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4842" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Warranty</i> means a promise
or affirmation given by a contractor to the Government regarding
the nature, usefulness, or condition of the supplies or performance
of services furnished under the contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3117">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4848" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Waste
reduction</i> means preventing or decreasing the amount of waste
being generated through waste prevention, recycling, or purchasing
recycled and environmentally preferable products.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3126">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4860" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Women-owned small business
concern</i> means—<ol id="d73e3829" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3132">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A small business concern–</p>
                        <ol id="d73e3839" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3138">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  That
is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case
of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock
of which is owned by one or more women; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3143">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Whose
management and daily business operations are controlled by one or
more women; or</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3148">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                            A small
business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program
in accordance with <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR part 127</ph> (see
subpart <xref href="Subpart_19.15.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_15" base="FAR_Subpart_19_15" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref ">19.15</xref>).</p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3158">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4912" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program.</i>
                  <ol id="d73e382945" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3163">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           "Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program" means a
                           program that authorizes contracting officers to limit
                           competition, including award on a sole-source
                           basis, to—</p>
                        <ol id="d73e3839323" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3169">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  Economically disadvantaged women-owned
small business (EDWOSB) concerns eligible under the WOSB Program
for Federal contracts assigned a North American Industry Classification
Systems (NAICS) code in an industry in which the Small Business
Administration (SBA) has determined that WOSB concerns are underrepresented in
Federal procurement; and</p>
                           </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3174">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  WOSB concerns
eligible under the WOSB Program for Federal contracts assigned a
NAICS code in an industry in which SBA has determined that WOSB
concerns are substantially underrepresented in Federal procurement.</p>
                           </li></ol>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3179">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small
                           business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business
                           concern that is at least 51 percent directly and
                           unconditionally owned by, and the management and
                           daily business operations of which are controlled by,
                           one or more women who are citizens of the United
                           States and who are economically disadvantaged in
                           accordance with 
                              <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/part-127" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR part
                                 127</xref>, and the concern is certified by SBA
                              or an approved third-party certifier in accordance
                              with <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-127.300" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR
                                 127.300</xref>
                              
                           .
                           It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small
                           business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB
                           Program.</p>
                     </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3187">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           "Women-owned small business (WOSB)" concern eligible
                           under the WOSB Program means a small business concern
                           that is at least 51 percent directly and
                           unconditionally owned by, and the management and
                           daily business operations of which are controlled by,
                           one or more women who are citizens of the United
                           States, and
                              the concern is certified by SBA or an approved
                              third-party certifier in accordance with <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-127.300" format="html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR
                                 127.300</xref>.
                        </p>
                     </li></ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d75e3194">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_2.101" xtrc="d72e4969" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Writing or written</i> (see
"in writing").</p>
            </li></ol></conbody></concept></dita>