<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_1019" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.1019</ph> Additional classes of service employees.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1404e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1440e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            If the contracting officer is aware that contract performance involves classes of service employees not included in the wage determination, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to classify the unlisted classes so as to provide a reasonable relationship (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> appropriate level of skill comparison) between the unlisted classifications and the classifications listed in the determination (see paragraph (c) of the clause at <xref href="52.222-41.dita#FAR_52_222_41"
                        base="i1056332"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.222-41</xref>, Service Contract Labor Standards). The contractor shall initiate the conforming procedure before unlisted classes of employees perform contract work. The contractor shall submit <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/request-authorization-additional-classification-and-rate"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">Standard Form (SF) 1444</xref>, Request For Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate. The contracting officer shall review the proposed classification and rate and promptly submit the completed <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/request-authorization-additional-classification-and-rate"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1444</xref> (which must include information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the employees’ representative or the employees themselves together with the agency recommendation) and all other pertinent information to the Wage and Hour Division. Within 30 days of receipt of the request, the Wage and Hour Division will (1) approve, modify, or disapprove the request when the parties are in agreement or (2) render a final determination in the event of disagreement among the parties. If the Wage and Hour Division will require more than 30 days to take action, it will notify the contracting officer within 30 days of receipt of the request that additional time is necessary.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1440e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Some wage determinations will list a series of classes within a job classification family, for example, Computer Operators, level I, II, and III, or Electronic Technicians, level I, II, and III, or Clerk Typist, level I and II. Generally, level I is the lowest level. It is the entry level, and establishment of a lower level through conformance is not permissible. Further, trainee classifications may not be conformed. Helpers in skilled maintenance trades (for example, electricians, machinists, and automobile mechanics) whose duties constitute, in fact, separate and distinct jobs may also be used if listed on the wage determination, but may not be conformed. Conformance may not be used to artificially split or subdivide classifications listed in the wage determination. However, conforming procedures may be used if the work which an employee performs under the contract is not within the scope of any classification listed on the wage determination, regardless of job title. (See <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR 4.152</ph>.)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1440e35">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Subminimum rates for apprentices, student learners, and disabled workers are permissible in accordance with paragraph (q) of the clause at <xref href="52.222-41.dita#FAR_52_222_41"
                        base="i1056332"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.222-41</xref>, Service Contract Labor Standards.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
