<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_1012_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.1012-1</ph> Prevailing wage determinations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1396e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1396e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e15">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Wage and
Hour Administrator may issue revisions to prevailing wage determinations
periodically. The need for inclusion of a revised prevailing wage
determination in a solicitation, contract or contract modification
(see <xref href="22.1007.dita#FAR_22_1007"
                              base="i1096782"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1007</xref>) is determined
by the date of receipt of the revised prevailing wage determination
by the contracting agency. (Note the distinction between receipt
by the agency and receipt by the contracting officer which may occur
later.)</p>
                     <ol id="d1396e36" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e24">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> For purposes of using Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>, the
time of receipt by the contracting agency shall be the first day
of publication of the revised prevailing wage determination on the
website.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e32">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> For purposes
of using the e98 process, the time of receipt by the contracting
agency shall be the date the agency receives actual notice of a
new or revised prevailing wage determination from the Department
of Labor as an e98 response.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In selecting
a prevailing wage determination from the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website
for use in a solicitation or other contract action, the contracting
officer shall monitor the Wage
Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website to determine whether
the applicable wage determination has been revised. Revisions published
on the Wage Determinations
at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website or otherwise communicated to the
contracting officer within the timeframes prescribed at <xref href="#FAR_22_1012_1"
                              base="i1096948"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1012-1</xref>(b) and (c) are
effective and must be included in the resulting contract. Monitoring
can be accomplished by use of the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website’s
"Alert Service".</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e57">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The following
shall apply when contracting by sealed bidding: a revised prevailing
wage determination shall not be effective if it is received by the
contracting agency less than 10 days before the opening of bids,
and the contracting officer finds that there is not reasonable time
to incorporate the revision in the solicitation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> For contractual
actions other than sealed bidding, a revised prevailing wage determination
received by the contracting agency after award of a new contract
or a modification as specified in <xref href="22.1007.dita#FAR_22_1007"
                        base="i1096782"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.1007</xref>(b) shall not be
effective provided that the start of performance is within 30 days
of the award or the specified modification. If the contract does
not specify a start of performance date which is within 30 days
of the award or the specified modification, and if contract performance
does not commence within 30 days of the award or the specified modification,
any revision received by the contracting agency not less than 10
days before commencement of the work shall be effective.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1432e70">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> If the
contracting officer has submitted an e98 to the Department of Labor
requesting a prevailing wage determination and has not received
a response within 10 days, the contracting officer shall contact
the Wage and Hour Division by telephone to determine when the wage
determination can be expected. (The telephone number is provided
on the e98 website.)</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
