<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_404_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.404-1</ph> Types of wage determinations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1298e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1334e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> General wage determinations.</p>
               <ol id="d1298e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1334e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A
general wage determination contains prevailing wage rates for the
types of construction designated in the determination, and is used
in contracts performed within a specified geographical area. General
wage determinations contain no expiration date and remain valid
until modified, superseded, or canceled by the Department of Labor.
Once incorporated in a contract, a general wage determination normally
remains effective for the life of the contract, unless the contracting
officer exercises an option to extend the term of the contract (see <xref href="22.404-12.dita#FAR_22_404_12"
                              base="i1097917"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.404-12</xref>). These determinations
shall be used whenever possible. They are issued at the discretion
of the Department of Labor either upon receipt of an agency request
or on the Department of Labor’s own initiative.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1334e24">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        General wage determinations
are published on the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website. General
wage determinations are effective on the publication date of the
wage determination or upon receipt of the wage determination by
the contracting agency, whichever occurs first. “Publication” within
the meaning of this section shall occur on the first date the wage
determination is published on the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov.
Archived Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute general wage
determinations that are no longer current may be accessed in the
“Archived DB WD” database on Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website
for information purposes only. Contracting officers may not use
an archived wage determination in a contract action without obtaining
prior approval of the Department of Labor. To obtain prior approval,
contact the Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, using <xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>,
or contact the procurement agency labor advisor listed on <xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1334e35">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Project
wage determinations</i>. A project wage determination is issued
at the specific request of a contracting agency. It is used only
when no general wage determination applies, and is effective for
180 calendar days from the date of the determination. However, if
a determination expires before contract award, it may be possible
to obtain an extension to the 180-day life of the determination
(see <xref href="22.404-5.dita#FAR_22_404_5"
                        base="i1097810"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.404-5</xref>(b)(2)). Once
incorporated in a contract, a project wage determination normally
remains effective for the life of the contract, unless the contracting
officer exercises an option to extend the term of the contract (see <xref href="22.404-12.dita#FAR_22_404_12"
                        base="i1097917"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.404-12</xref>).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
