<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_801" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.801</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e18">Affirmative
action program</i> means a contractor’s program that complies with
Department of Labor regulations to ensure equal opportunity in employment
to minorities and women.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e24">Compliance
evaluation</i> means any one or combination of actions that the
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) may take
to examine a Federal contractor’s compliance with one or more of
the requirements of E.O. 11246.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e30">Contractor</i> includes
the terms "prime contractor" and "subcontractor."</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e36">Deputy
Assistant Secretary</i> means the Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Federal Contract Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor, or a designee.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e43">Equal
Opportunity clause</i> means the clause at <xref href="52.222-26.dita#FAR_52_222_26"
                  base="i1055793"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">52.222-26</xref>, Equal Opportunity,
as prescribed in <xref href="22.810.dita#FAR_22_810"
                  base="i1097344"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">22.810</xref>(e).</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e55">E.O. 11246</i> means
PartsII and IV of Executive Order 11246, September 24,1965 (30 FR12319),
and any Executive order amending or superseding this order (see <xref href="22.802.dita#FAR_22_802"
                  base="i1097248"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">22.802</xref>). This term specifically
includes the Equal Opportunity clause at <xref href="52.222-26.dita#FAR_52_222_26"
                  base="i1055793"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">52.222-26</xref>, and the rules,
regulations, and orders issued pursuant to E.O. 11246 by the Secretary
of Labor or a designee.</p>
         <p id="d1351e47" class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e67">Gender identity</i> has the meaning given by
the Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance
Programs, and is found at <xref href="http://www.dol.gov/ofccp/LGBT/LGBT_FAQs.html"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">www.dol.gov/ofccp/LGBT/LGBT_FAQs.html</xref>.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e76">Prime
contractor</i> means any person who holds, or has held, a Government
contract subject to E.O. 11246.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e82">Recruiting
and training agency</i> means any person who refers workers to any
contractor or provides or supervises apprenticeship or training
for employment by any contractor.</p>
         <p id="d1351e59" class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e88">Sexual orientation</i> has the meaning given
by the Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance
Programs, and is found at <xref href="http://www.dol.gov/ofccp/LGBT/LGBT_FAQs.html"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">www.dol.gov/ofccp/LGBT/LGBT_FAQs.html</xref>.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e98">Site
of construction</i> means the general physical location of any building,
highway, or other change or improvement to real property that is
undergoing construction, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion,
extension, demolition, or repair; and any temporary location or
facility at which a contractor or other participating party meets
a demand or performs a function relating to a Government contract
or subcontract.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e104">Subcontract</i> means
any agreement or arrangement between a contractor and any person
(in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of an employer
and an employee)-<ol id="d1348e72" class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <ol id="d1348e76" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1384e81">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> For the purchase,
sale, or use of personal property or nonpersonal services that,
in whole or in part, are necessary to the performance of any one
or more contracts; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1384e86">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Under which
any portion of the contractor’s obligation under any one or more
contracts is performed, undertaken, or assumed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1384e90" class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_22.801" xtrc="d1374e132">Subcontractor</i> means any person who holds,
or has held, a subcontract subject to E.O. 11246. The term "first-tier
subcontractor" means a subcontractor holding a subcontract with
a prime contractor.</p>
         <p id="d1384e94" class="- topic/p ">
            <i xtrf="_22.801" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">United States</i> means the
50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana
Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Wake
Island.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
