<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_805" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.805</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1354e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Preaward clearances for contracts
and subcontracts of $10 million or more (excluding construction).</p>
               <ol id="d1354e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Except as
provided in paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(8) of this section, if the
estimated amount of the contract or subcontract is $10 million or
more, the contracting officer shall request clearance from the appropriate
OFCCP regional office before-</p>
                     <ol id="d1354e33" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e22">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Award of any
contract, including any indefinite delivery contract or letter contract;
or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e27">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Modification
of an existing contract for new effort that would constitute a contract
award.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e32">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Preaward
clearance for each proposed contract and for each proposed first-tier
subcontract of $10 million or more shall be requested by the contracting
officer directly from the OFCCP regional office(s). Verbal requests
shall be confirmed by letter or facsimile transmission.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> When the
contract work is to be performed outside the United States with
employees recruited within the United States, the contracting officer
shall send the request for a preaward clearance to the OFCCP regional
office serving the area where the proposed contractor’s corporate
home or branch office is located in the United States, or the corporate location
where personnel recruiting is handled, if different from the contractor’s
corporate home or branch office. If the proposed contractor has
no corporate office or location within the United States, the preaward
clearance request action should be based on the location of the
recruiting and training agency in the United States.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e42">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The contracting
officer does not need to request a preaward clearance if-</p>
                     <ol id="d1354e81" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e48">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
specific proposed contractor is listed in OFCCP’s National Preaward
Registry via the Internet at 
                                 <xref href="https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/pre-award/registry"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/pre-award/registry</xref>;
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e56">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The projected
award date is within 24 months of the proposed contractor’s Notice
of Compliance completion date in the Registry; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e61">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The contracting
officer documents the Registry review in the contract file.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e66">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> The contracting
officer shall include the following information in the preaward
clearance request:</p>
                     <ol id="d1354e123" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e72">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Name, address, and telephone number
of the prospective contractor and of any corporate affiliate at
which work is to be performed.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e77">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Name,
address, and telephone number of each proposed first-tier subcontractor
with a proposed subcontract estimated at $10 million or more.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e82">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Anticipated
date of award.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e87">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Information
as to whether the contractor and first-tier subcontractors have
previously held any Government contracts or subcontracts.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e92">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> Place or
places of performance of the prime contract and first-tier subcontracts
estimated at $10 million or more, if known.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e97">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph> The estimated
dollar amount of the contract and each first-tier subcontract, if
known.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e102">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> The contracting
officer shall allow as much time as feasible before award for the
conduct of necessary compliance evaluation by OFCCP. As soon as
the apparently successful offeror can be determined, the contracting
officer shall process a preaward clearance request in accordance
with agency procedures, assuring, if possible, that the preaward
clearance request is submitted to the OFCCP regional office at least
30 days before the proposed award date.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e107">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> Within
15 days of the clearance request, OFCCP will inform the awarding
agency of its intention to conduct a preaward compliance evaluation.
If OFCCP does not inform the awarding agency within that period
of its intention to conduct a preaward compliance evaluation, clearance
shall be presumed and the awarding agency is authorized to proceed
with the award. If OFCCP informs the awarding agency of its intention
to conduct a preaward compliance evaluation, OFCCP shall be allowed
an additional 20 days after the date that it so informs the awarding
agency to provide its conclusions. If OFCCP does not provide the
awarding agency with its conclusions within that period, clearance
shall be presumed and the awarding agency is authorized to proceed
with the award.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e112">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph> If the
procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section
would delay award of an urgent and critical contract beyond the
time necessary to make award or beyond the time specified in the
offer or extension thereof, the contracting officer shall immediately
inform the OFCCP regional office of the expiration date of the offer
or the required date of award and request clearance be provided
before that date. If the OFCCP regional office advises that a preaward evaluation
cannot be completed by the required date, the contracting officer
shall submit written justification for the award to the head of
the contracting activity, who, after informing the OFCCP regional
office, may then approve the award without the preaward clearance.
If an award is made under this authority, the contracting officer
shall immediately request a postaward evaluation from the OFCCP
regional office.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e117">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph> If, under
the provisions of paragraph (a)(8) of this section, a postaward
evaluation determines the contractor to be in noncompliance with
E.O. 11246, the Deputy Assistant Secretary may authorize the use
of the enforcement procedures at <xref href="22.809.dita#FAR_22_809"
                              base="i1097337"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.809</xref> against
the noncomplying contractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1390e125">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Furnishing
posters</i>. The contracting officer shall furnish to the contractor
appropriate quantities of the poster entitled "Equal Employment
Opportunity Is The Law." These shall be obtained in accordance with
agency procedures.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
