<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="FAR_25_003"
            xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">25.003</ph> Definitions.
      </title>
      <conbody>
         <p>As used in this part—</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e18">Caribbean
Basin country</i> means any of the following countries: Antigua
and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bonaire, British
Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica,
Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and
the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or Trinidad and Tobago.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e24">Caribbean
Basin country end product</i>—<ol id="d1591e22">
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e26">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e22">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            Means
an article that–</p>
                        <ol id="d1591e36">
                           <li props="Runin">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e28">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              </p>
                              <ol id="d1591e46">
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e33">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                        Is
wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Caribbean Basin
country; or</p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e38">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                        In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in a Caribbean
Basin country into a new and different article of commerce with
a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was transformed; and</p>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e43">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                  Is not
excluded from duty-free treatment for Caribbean countries under
<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2703(b)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                       scope="external"
                                       format="html">19 U.S.C. 2703(b)</xref>.</p>
                              <ol id="d1591e76">
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e49">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                        For this reason, the following
articles are not Caribbean Basin country end products:</p>
                                    <ol id="d1591e86">
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e55">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                              Tuna,
prepared or preserved in any manner in airtight containers.</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e60">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                              Petroleum,
or any product derived from petroleum.</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e65">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                                              Watches
and watch parts (including cases, bracelets, and straps) of whatever
type including, but not limited to, mechanical, quartz digital,
or quartz analog, if such watches or watch parts contain any material
that is the product of any country to which the Harmonized Tariff
Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) column 2 rates of duty apply
(i.e., Afghanistan, Cuba, Laos, North Korea, and Vietnam).</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e70">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                                              Certain
of the following: textiles and apparel articles; footwear, handbags,
luggage, flat goods, work gloves, and leather wearing apparel; or
handloomed, handmade, and folklore articles.</p>
                                       </li>
                                    </ol>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e75">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                        Access
to the HTSUS to determine duty-free status of articles of the types
listed in paragraph (1)(ii)(A)(4) of this definition is available
via the Internet at <xref href="https://usitc.gov/tata/hts/index.htm"
                                             format="html"
                                             scope="external">https://usitc.gov/tata/hts/index.htm</xref>.
In particular, see the following:</p>
                                    <ol id="d1591e134">
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e84">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                              General Note
3(c), Products Eligible for Special Tariff treatment.</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e89">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                              General
Note 17, Products of Countries Designated as Beneficiary Countries
under the United States- Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act of
2000.</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e94">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                                              Section
XXII, Chapter 98, Subchapter II, Articles Exported and Returned,
Advanced or Improved Abroad, U.S. Note 7(b).</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e99">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                                              Section
XXII, Chapter 98, Subchapter XX, Goods Eligible for Special Tariff
Benefits under the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership
Act; and</p>
                                       </li>
                                    </ol>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e104">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            Refers
to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract, but for
purposes of calculating the value of the acquisition, includes services
(except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided
that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that
of the article itself.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1612e191">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e201">Civil aircraft and related articles</i> means-<ol>
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e191">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e116">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            All aircraft other than aircraft
to be purchased for use by the Department of Defense or the U.S.
Coast Guard;</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e121">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            The engines
(and parts and components for incorporation into the engines) of
these aircraft;</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e126">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                            Any other
parts, components, and subassemblies for incorporation into the
aircraft; and</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e131">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                            Any ground
flight simulators, and parts and components of these simulators,
for use with respect to the aircraft, whether to be used as original
or replacement equipment in the manufacture, repair, maintenance,
rebuilding, modification, or conversion of the aircraft and without
regard to whether the aircraft or articles receive duty-free treatment under
section 601(a)(2) of the Trade Agreements Act.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1612e236">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e252">Component</i> means an article, material, or
supply incorporated directly into an end product or construction
material.</p>
         <p id="d1612e239">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e259">Construction material</i> means an article,
material, or supply brought to the construction site by a contractor
or subcontractor for incorporation into the building or work. The
term also includes an item brought to the site preassembled from
articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency life safety
systems, such as emergency lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation
systems, that are discrete systems incorporated into a public building
or work and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as
a single and distinct construction material regardless of when or
how the individual parts or components of those systems are delivered
to the construction site. Materials purchased directly by the Government
are supplies, not construction material.</p>
         <p id="d1612e243">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e265">Cost of components</i> means-<ol>
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e236">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e151">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            For
components purchased by the contractor, the acquisition cost, including
transportation costs to the place of incorporation into the end
product or construction material (whether or not such costs are
paid to a domestic firm), and any applicable duty (whether or not
a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e156">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            For components
manufactured by the contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture
of the component, including transportation costs as described in
paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs,
but excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs
associated with the manufacture of the end product.</p>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e160"/>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1613e161">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d7e164">Critical component</i> means a component
that is mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States and
deemed critical to the U.S. supply chain. The list of critical components
is at <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.</p>
         <p id="d1613e171">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d7e174">Critical item</i> means a domestic construction
material or domestic end product that is deemed critical to the
U.S. supply chain. The list of critical items is at <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.</p>
         <p id="d1612e267">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e298">Designated country</i> means any of the following
countries:<ol>
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e266">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e168">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country (Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria,, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan (known in the World Trade Organization as "the Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu,
                        Kinmen and Matsu (Chinese Taipei)"), Ukraine, or United Kingdom);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e173">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            A Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Peru, or Singapore);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e178">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                            A least
developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati,
Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique,
Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste,
Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e183">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                            A Caribbean
Basin country (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana,
Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or
Trinidad and Tobago).</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1612e312">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e352">Designated country end product</i> means a
WTO GPA country end product, an FTA country end product, a least
developed country end product, or a Caribbean Basin country end
product.</p>
         <p id="d1612e315">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e358">Domestic construction material</i> means-<ol>
               <li>
                  <ol>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e199">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            For use
in subparts other than 25.6—</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <ol id="d1591e324">
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e206">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 For construction material that
does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both—</p>
                              <ol id="d1591e343">
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e212">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       An unmanufactured construction
material mined or produced in the United States; or</p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e217">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                        A construction
material manufactured in the United States, if–</p>
                                    <ol>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e245">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                             The cost of the components
mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 60
percent of the cost of all its components, except that the percentage
will be 65 percent for items delivered in calendar years 2024 through 2028
and 75 percent for items delivered starting in calendar year 2029
(unless an alternate percentage is established for a contract in
accordance with FAR <xref href="25.201.dita#FAR_25_201" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.201</xref>(c)).Components
of unknown origin are treated as foreign; or</p>
                                       </li>
                                       <li>
                                          <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e228">
                                             <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                             The construction
material is a commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item;
or</p>
                                       </li>
                                    </ol>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e233">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 For construction
material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
or a combination of both, a construction material manufactured in
the United States if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes
less than 5 percent of the cost of all the components used in such
construction material. The cost of foreign iron and steel includes but
is not limited to the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products
(such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or
forgings utilized in the manufacture of the construction material
and a good faith estimate of the cost of all foreign iron or steel
components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron or steel components of
unknown origin are treated as foreign. If the construction material
contains multiple components, the cost of all the materials used
in such construction material is calculated in accordance with the
definition of “cost of components” in this section; or</p>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e238">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                           For use
in <xref href="Subpart_25.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_25_6" outputclass="fm:Subpart">subpart  25.6</xref>, see
the definition in <xref href="25.601.dita#FAR_25_601" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.601</xref>.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1612e388">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e439">Domestic end product</i> means- <ol>
               <li>
                  <ol>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e256">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            For an end
product that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or
steel or a combination of both—</p>
                        <ol>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e262">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 An unmanufactured end product mined
or produced in the United States;</p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e267">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 An end
product manufactured in the United States, if–</p>
                              <ol>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e302">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       The cost of its components
mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 60
percent of the cost of all its components, except that the percentage
will be 65 percent for items delivered in calendar years 2024 through
2028 and 75 percent for items delivered starting in calendar year
2029 (unless an alternate percentage is established for a contract
in accordance with FAR <xref href="25.101.dita#FAR_25_101" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.101</xref>(d)). Components
of unknown origin are treated as foreign. Scrap generated, collected,
and prepared for processing in the United States is considered domestic;
or</p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e278">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                       The end
product is a COTS item; or</p>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e283">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           For an
end product that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
or a combination of both, an end product manufactured in the United
States, if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than
5 percent of the cost of all the components used in the end product.
The cost of foreign iron and steel includes but is not limited to
the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet,
slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in
the manufacture of the end product and a good faith estimate of
the cost of all foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS
fasteners. Iron or steel components of unknown origin are treated
as foreign. If the end product contains multiple components, the
cost of all the materials used in such end product is calculated
in accordance with the definition of "cost of components" in this
section.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1612e433">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e494">Domestic offer</i> means an offer of a domestic
end product. When the solicitation specifies that award will be
made on a group of line items, a domestic offer means an offer where
the proposed price of the domestic end products exceeds 50 percent
of the total proposed price of the group.</p>
         <p id="d1612e436">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e500">Eligible offer</i> means an offer of an eligible
product. When the solicitation specifies that award will be made
on a group of line items, an eligible offer means a foreign offer
where the combined proposed price of the eligible products and the
domestic end products exceeds 50 percent of the total proposed price
of the group.</p>
         <p id="d1612e439">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e506">Eligible product</i> means a foreign end product,
construction material, or service that, due to applicability of
a trade agreement to a particular acquisition, is not subject to
discriminatory treatment.</p>
         <p id="d1612e443">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e512">End product</i> means those articles, materials,
and supplies to be acquired for public use.</p>
         <p id="id211FDH0035Z">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d55e293">Fastener</i> means a hardware device that mechanically
joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples of fasteners
are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.</p>
         <p id="d1612e446">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e518">Foreign construction material</i> means a construction
material other than a domestic construction material.</p>
         <p id="d1612e449">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e524">Foreign contractor</i> means a contractor or
subcontractor organized or existing under the laws of a country
other than the United States.</p>
         <p id="d1612e452">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e531">Foreign end product</i> means an end product
other than a domestic end product.</p>
         <p id="id211FDH090Y4">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d55e305">Foreign iron and steel</i> means iron or steel
products not produced in the United States. Produced in the United
States means that all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel
must take place in the United States, from the initial melting stage
through the application of coatings, except metallurgical processes
involving refinement of steel additives. The origin of the elements of
the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination of whether
it is domestic or foreign.</p>
         <p id="d1612e455">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e537">Foreign offer</i> means any offer other than
a domestic offer.</p>
         <p id="d1612e458">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e543">Free Trade Agreement country</i> means Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Peru, or Singapore.</p>
         <p id="d1612e462">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e549">Free Trade Agreement country end product</i> means
an article that-<ol>
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e461">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e341">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            Is wholly the growth, product,
or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e346">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in an FTA
country into a new and different article of commerce with a name,
character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered
for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating
the value of the end product, includes services (except transportation services)
incidental to the article, provided that the value of those incidental
services does not exceed that of the article itself.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p id="d1612e486">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e582">Israeli end product</i> means an article that-<ol>
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e485">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e358">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            Is wholly the growth, product,
or manufacture of Israel; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e363">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in Israel
into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character,
or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which
it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e615">Least
developed country</i> means any of the following countries: Afghanistan,
Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of
Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu,
Yemen, or Zambia.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e622">Least
developed country end product</i> means an article that-<ol id="d1591e514">
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e518">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e379">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            Is wholly the growth, product,
or manufacture of a least developed country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e384">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in a least
developed country into a new and different article of commerce with
a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered
for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating
the value of the end product, includes services (except transportation
services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of
those incidental services does not exceed that of the article itself.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e655">Noneligible
offer</i> means an offer of a noneligible product.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e661">Noneligible
product</i> means a foreign end product that is not an eligible
product.</p>
         <p id="id211FDI00YHS">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d55e381">Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both</i> means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds
50 percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of
iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products (such
as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings
utilized in the manufacture of the product and a good faith estimate
of the cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.</p>
         <p id="id211FDJ00KUI">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d55e385">Steel</i> means an alloy that includes at least
50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and may include
other elements.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d59e405">United
States</i> means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying
areas.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e673">U.S.-made
end product</i> means an article that is mined, produced, or manufactured
in the United States or that is substantially transformed in the
United States into a new and different article of commerce with
a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was transformed.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d1612e559">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e679">World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country</i> means any of the following countries: Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United Kingdom.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_25.003" xtrc="d1617e686">WTO
GPA country end product</i> means an article that-<ol id="d1591e560">
               <li>
                  <ol id="d1591e564">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e425">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            Is wholly the growth, product,
or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d1613e430">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in a WTO
GPA country into a new and different article of commerce with a
name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered
for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating
the value of the end product includes services (except transportation
services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of
those incidental services does not exceed that of the article itself.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
