<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_25_201" xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">25.201</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1623e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  Except as provided in <xref href="25.202.dita#FAR_25_202"
                        base="i1093069"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.202</xref>, use only domestic
construction materials in construction contracts performed in the United
States.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The Buy American statute
                  restricts the purchase of construction materials that are not domestic
                  construction materials. For manufactured construction materials, the Buy American
                     statute, <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13881"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">E.O. 13881,</xref> and <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/14005"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">E.O. 14005</xref>
                     use
                  a two-part test to define domestic construction materials.</p>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1623e24">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        The article must be manufactured
in the United States; and
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1623e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e45">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              Except for
                                 construction material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron
                                 or steel or a combination of both, the cost of domestic components
                                 must exceed 60 percent of the cost of all the components, except
                                 that the percentage will be 65 percent for items delivered in
                                 calendar years 2024 through 2028 and 75 percent for items delivered
                                 starting in calendar year 2029, but see paragraph (c) of this
                                 section.
                              In accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1907&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                    scope="external"
                                    format="html">41 U.S.C. 1907</xref>, this domestic content test of the
                              Buy American statute has been waived for acquisitions of COTS items
                              (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">12.505</xref>(a)). </p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1623e39">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> For construction
                              material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a
                              combination of both, the cost of foreign iron and steel must
                              constitute less than 5 percent of the cost of all the components used
                              in such construction material (see the definition of "foreign iron and
                              steel" at <xref href="25.003.dita#FAR_25_003" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.003</xref>). The cost of foreign
                              iron and steel includes but is not limited to the cost of foreign iron
                              or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or
                              sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the
                              construction material and a good faith estimate of the cost of all
                              foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners. This
                              domestic content test of the Buy American statute has not been waived
                              for acquisitions of COTS items in this category, except for COTS
                              fasteners.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="ol_dmw_pgg_1vb">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " audience="fm:ParaNumOnly" id="d1624e67">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        A contract with a period of
                           performance that spans the schedule of domestic content threshold
                           increases specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section shall be
                           required to comply with each increased threshold for the items in the
                           year of delivery, unless the senior procurement executive of the
                           contracting agency allows for application of an alternate domestic
                           content test for that contract under which the domestic content threshold
                           in effect at time of contract award will apply to the entire period of
                           performance for the contract. This authority is not delegable. The senior
                           procurement executive shall consult the Office of Management and Budget's
                           Made in America Office before allowing the use of the alternate domestic
                           content test.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e72">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        When a senior procurement executive
                           allows for application of an alternate domestic content test for a
                           contract, see <xref href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1102</xref>(a)(3) or (c)(4) for use of
                           the appropriate Alternate clause to reflect the domestic content
                           threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance for that
                           contract.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
