<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_25_302_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">25.302-4</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1617e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1639e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1617e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1639e17">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The policy, responsibilities, procedures, accountability, training, equipping, and conduct of personnel performing private security functions in designated areas are addressed at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">32 CFR part 159</ph>, entitled "Private Security Contractors Operating in Contingency Operations". Contractor responsibilities include ensuring that employees are aware of, and comply with, relevant orders, directives, and instructions; keeping appropriate personnel records; accounting for weapons; registering and identifying armored vehicles, helicopters, and other military vehicles; and reporting specified incidents in which personnel performing private security functions under a contract are involved.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1639e25">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                In addition, contractors are required to fully cooperate with any Government-authorized investigation into incidents reported pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of the clause at <xref href="52.225-26.dita#FAR_52_225_26"
                              base="i1054921"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-26</xref>, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States, by providing access to employees performing private security functions and relevant information in the possession of the contractor regarding the incident concerned.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1639e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Implementing guidance.</i> In accordance with <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">32 CFR part 159</ph>-</p>
               <ol id="d1617e56" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1639e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Geographic combatant commanders will provide DoD contractors performing private security functions with guidance and procedures for the operational environment in their area of responsibility; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1639e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                In a designated area of combat operations, or areas of other significant military operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense and only upon agreement of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, the relevant Chief of Mission will provide implementing instructions for non-DoD contractors performing private security functions and their personnel consistent with the standards set forth by the geographic combatant commander. In accordance with <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">32 CFR 159.4(c)</ph>, the Chief of Mission has the option of instructing non-DoD contractors performing private security functions and their personnel to follow the guidance and procedures of the geographic combatant commander and/or a sub-unified commander or joint force commander where specifically authorized by the combatant commander to do so and notice of that authorization is provided to non-DoD agencies.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
