<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_25_604" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">25.604</ph> Preaward determination
concerning the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act
or the Buy American statute.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1646e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1668e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> For any acquisition, an offeror
may request from the contracting officer a determination concerning
the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy
American statute for specifically identified construction materials.
The time for submitting the request is specified in the solicitation
in paragraph (b) of either <xref href="52.225-22.dita#FAR_52_225_22"
                        base="i1054585"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-22</xref> or <xref href="52.225-24.dita#FAR_52_225_24"
                        base="i1054813"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-24</xref>, whichever applies.
The information and supporting data that must be included in the
request are also specified in the solicitation in paragraphs (c)
and (d) of either <xref href="52.225-21.dita#FAR_52_225_21"
                        base="i1054449"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-21</xref> or <xref href="52.225-23.dita#FAR_52_225_23"
                        base="i1054633"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-23</xref>, whichever applies.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1668e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Before
award, the contracting officer must evaluate all requests based
on the information provided and may supplement this information
with other readily available information.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1668e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Determination
based on unreasonable cost of domestic construction material.</p>
               <ol id="d1646e53" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1668e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Manufactured
construction material</i>. The contracting officer must compare
the offered price of the contract using foreign manufactured construction
material (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, any construction material not manufactured
in the United States, or construction material consisting predominantly
of iron or steel and the iron or steel is not produced in the United
States) to the estimated price if all domestic manufactured construction
material were used. If use of domestic manufactured construction
material would increase the overall offered price of the contract
by more than 25 percent, then the contracting officer shall determine
that the cost of the domestic manufactured construction material
is unreasonable</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1668e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unmanufactured
construction material</i>. The contracting officer must compare
the cost of each foreign unmanufactured construction material to
the cost of domestic unmanufactured construction material. If the
cost of the domestic unmanufactured construction material exceeds
the cost of the foreign unmanufactured construction material by
more than 20
percent, then the contracting officer shall determine that
the cost of the domestic unmanufactured construction material is
unreasonable.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
