<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_25_602_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">25.602-1</ph> Section 1605 of the Recovery Act.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d1673e8" class="- topic/p ">Except as provided in <xref href="25.603.dita#FAR_25_603"
                  base="i1091415"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">25.603</xref>-</p>
         <ol id="d1643e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by the Recovery Act may be used for a project for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public building or public work unless the public building or public work is located in the United States and-</p>
               <ol id="d1643e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                All of the iron, steel, and manufactured goods used as construction material in the project are produced or manufactured in the United States.</p>
                     <ol id="d1643e42" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e27">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    All manufactured construction material must be manufactured in the United States.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e32">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Iron or steel components</i>.</p>
                           <ol id="d1643e64" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e40">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        Iron or steel components of construction material consisting wholly or predominantly of iron or steel must be produced in the United States. This does not restrict the origin of the elements of the iron or steel, but requires that all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must take place in the United States, except metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel additives.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e45">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section does not apply to iron or steel components or subcomponents in construction material that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e50">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">All other components</i>. There is no restriction on the origin or place of production or manufacture of components or subcomponents that do not consist of iron or steel.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e57">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Examples</i>.</p>
                           <ol id="d1643e109" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e65">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        If a steel guardrail consists predominantly of steel, even though coated with aluminum, then the steel would be subject to the section 1605 restriction requiring that all stages of production of the steel occur in the United States, in addition to the requirement to manufacture the guardrail in the United States. There would be no restrictions on the other components of the guardrail.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e70">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        If a wooden window frame is delivered to the site as a single construction material, there is no restriction on any of the components, including the steel lock on the window frame; or</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e75">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If trade agreements apply, the manufactured construction material shall either comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection, or be wholly the product of or be substantially transformed in a Recovery Act designated country;</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e80">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Manufactured materials purchased directly by the Government and delivered to the site for incorporation into the project shall meet the same domestic source requirements as specified for manufactured construction material in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1665e85">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            A project may include several contracts, a single contract, or one or more line items on a contract.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
