<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_26_203" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">26.203</ph> Transition of work.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1691e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            In anticipation of potential emergency response requirements, agencies involved in response planning should consider awarding emergency response contracts before a major disaster or emergency occurs to ensure immediate response and relief. These contracts should be structured to respond to immediate emergency response needs, and should not be structured in any way that may inhibit the transition of emergency response work to local firms (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, unnecessarily broad scopes of work or long periods of performance).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">42U.S.C.5</xref> 150(b)(2) requires that agencies performing response, relief, and reconstruction activities transition to local firms any work performed under contracts in effect on the date on which the President declares a major disaster or emergency, unless the head of such agency determines in writing that it is not feasible or practicable. This determination may be made on an individual contract or class basis. The written determination shall be prepared within a reasonable time given the circumstances of the emergency.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e25">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            In effecting the transition, agencies are not required to terminate or renegotiate existing contracts. Agencies should transition the work at the earliest practical opportunity after consideration of the following:</p>
               <ol id="d1691e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The potential duration of the disaster or emergency.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The severity of the disaster or emergency.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The scope and structure of the existing contract, including its period of performance and the milestone(s) at which a transition is reasonable (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, before exercising an option).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The potential impact of a transition, including safety, national defense, and mobilization.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e54">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                The expected availability of qualified local offerors who can provide the products or services at a reasonable price.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1714e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The agency shall transition the work to local firms using the local area set-aside identified in <xref href="26.202-1.dita#FAR_26_202_1"
                        base="i1090576"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">26.202-1</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
