<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_27_102" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">27.102</ph> General guidance.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1714e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1737e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The Government encourages the
maximum practical commercial use of inventions made under Government
contracts.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1737e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Generally,
the Government will not refuse to award a contract on the grounds
that the prospective contractor may infringe a patent. The Government
may authorize and consent to the use of inventions in the performance
of certain contracts, even though the inventions may be covered
by U.S. patents.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1737e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Generally,
contractors providing commercial
products and commercial services should indemnify the Government against
liability for the infringement of U.S. patents.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1737e25">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The Government
recognizes rights in data developed at private expense, and limits
its demands for delivery of that data. When such data is delivered,
the Government will acquire only those rights essential to its needs.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1737e30">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Generally,
the Government requires that contractors obtain permission from
copyright owners before including copyrighted works, owned by others,
in data to be delivered to the Government.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
