<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_27_202_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">27.202-1</ph> Reporting of royalties.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1721e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1744e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            To determine whether royalties anticipated or actually paid under Government contracts are excessive, improper, or inconsistent with Government patent rights the solicitation provision at <xref href="52.227-6.dita#FAR_52_227_6"
                        base="i1052268"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-6</xref> requires prospective contractors to furnish royalty information. The contracting officer shall take appropriate action to reduce or eliminate excessive or improper royalties.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1744e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            If the response to a solicitation includes a charge for royalties, the contracting officer shall, before award of the contract, forward the information to the office having cognizance of patent matters for the contracting activity. The cognizant office shall promptly advise the contracting officer of appropriate action.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1744e23">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The contracting officer, when considering the approval of a subcontract, shall require royalty information if it is required under the prime contract. The contracting officer shall forward the information to the office having cognizance of patent matters. However, the contracting officer need not delay consent while awaiting advice from the cognizant office.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1744e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall forward any royalty reports to the office having cognizance of patent matters for the contracting activity.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
