<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_27_406_3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">27.406-3</ph> Major system acquisition.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1768e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1791e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The clause at <xref href="52.227-21.dita#FAR_52_227_21"
                        base="i1052807"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-21</xref>, Technical Data Declaration, Revision, and Withholding of Payment-Major Systems, implements <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section2302(e)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">41 U.S.C. 2302(e)</xref>. When using the clause at <xref href="52.227-21.dita#FAR_52_227_21"
                        base="i1052807"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-21</xref>, the section of the contract specifying data delivery requirements (see <xref href="27.406-1.dita#FAR_27_406_1"
                        base="i1089394"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">27.406-1</xref>(b)) shall expressly identify those line items of technical data to which the clause applies. Upon delivery of the technical data, the contracting officer shall review the technical data and the contractor’s declaration relating to it to assure that the data are complete, accurate, and comply with contract requirements. If the data are not complete, accurate, or compliant, the contracting officer should request the contractor to correct the deficiencies, and may withhold payment. Final payment shall not be made under the contract until it has been determined that the delivery requirements of those line items of data to which the clause applies have been satisfactorily met.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1791e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            In a contract for, or in support of, a major system awarded by a civilian agency other than NASA or the U.S. Coast Guard, the following applies:</p>
               <ol id="d1768e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1791e33">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer shall require the delivery of any technical data relating to the major system or supplies for the major system, that are to be developed exclusively with Federal funds if the delivery of the technical data is needed to ensure the competitive acquisition of supplies or services that will be required in substantial quantities in the future. The clause at <xref href="52.227-22.dita#FAR_52_227_22"
                              base="i1052832"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.227-22</xref>, Major System-Minimum Rights, is used in addition to the clause at <xref href="52.227-14.dita#FAR_52_227_14"
                              base="i1052520"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref>, Rights in Data-General, and other required clauses, to ensure that the Government acquires at least those rights required by Pub. L. 98-577 in technical data developed exclusively with Federal funds.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1791e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Technical data, relating to a major system or supplies for a major system, procured or to be procured by the Government and also relating to the design, development, or manufacture of products or processes offered or to be offered for sale to the public (except for such data as may be necessary for the Government to operate or maintain the product, or use the process if obtained by the Government as an element of performance under the contract), shall not be required to be provided to the Government from persons who have developed such products or processes as a condition for the procurement of such products or processes by the Government.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
