<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_28_106_6"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">28.106-6</ph> Furnishing information.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1803e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1826e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The surety on the bond, upon its
written request, may be furnished information on the progress of
the work, payments, and the estimated percentage of completion,
concerning the contract for which the bond was furnished.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1826e15" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> When a
payment bond has been provided, the contracting officer shall, upon
request, furnish the name and address of the surety or sureties
to any subcontractor or supplier who has furnished or been requested
to furnish labor or material for the contract. In addition, general
information concerning the work progress, payments, and the estimated
percentage of completion may be furnished to persons who have provided
labor or materials and have not been paid.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1826e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> When a
payment bond has been provided for a contract, the head of the agency
or designee shall furnish a certified copy of the bond and the contract
for which it was given to any person who makes a request therefor
and who furnishes an affidavit that the requestor has supplied labor
or materials for such work and payment therefor has not been made
or that the requestor is being sued on such bond. The person who
makes the request shall be required to pay such costs of preparation
as determined by the head of the agency or designee to be reasonable
and appropriate (see <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C.3133</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1826e28" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Section
806(a)(2) of <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">Public Law</ph> 102-190,
as amended by <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">sections</ph> 2091
and 8105 of <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">Public Law</ph> 103-355
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 2302 note</xref>),
requires that the Federal Government provide information to subcontractors
on payment bonds under contracts for other than <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>commercial products or
commercial <?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 28.106-6 in paragraph (d) introductory text by:
a. Removing the term “Pub. L.” wherever it appears and adding in its place “Public Law”;
b. Removing the word “Sections” and adding in its place “sections”; and
c. Removing the phrase “commercial items as defined in Subpart” and adding in its place “commercial products or commercial services as defined in subpart”.?>services as defined in <xref href="Subpart_2.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_2_1"
                           base="i1125357"
                           outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                           class="- topic/xref ">subpart  2.1</xref>.</ph> Upon
the written or oral request of a subcontractor/supplier, or prospective
subcontractor/supplier, under a contract with respect to which a
payment bond has been furnished pursuant to the Bonds statute, the
contracting officer shall promptly provide to the requester, either orally
or in writing, as appropriate, any of the following:</p>
               <ol id="d1803e59" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1826e55" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Name
and address of the surety or sureties on the payment bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1826e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Penal amount
of the payment bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1826e65" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Copy of
the payment bond. The contracting officer may impose reasonable
fees to cover the cost of copying and providing a copy of the payment
bond.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
