<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_28_203_3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">28.203-3</ph> Release of security
interest.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>After
consultation with legal counsel, the contracting officer shall release
the security interest on the individual surety's assets using the
Optional Form 91, Release of Personal Property from Escrow, or a
similar release as soon as possible consistent with the conditions
in subparagraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. A surety's assets
pledged in support of a payment bond may be released to a subcontractor
or supplier upon Government receipt of a Federal district court
judgment, or a sworn statement by the subcontractor or supplier
that the claim is correct along with a notarized authorization of
the release by the surety stating that it approves of such release.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracts
subject to the Bonds statute.</i> See section <xref href="1.110.dita#FAR_1_110"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">1.110</xref> and
section <xref href="28.102-1.dita#FAR_28_102_1"
                              base="i1088251"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">28.102-1</xref>, paragraph (a).
The security interest shall be maintained for the later of—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e30">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>1 year
following final payment;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e35">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>Until
completion of any warranty period (applicable only to performance
bonds); or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e40">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>Pending
resolution of all claims filed against the payment bond during the
1 year period following final payment.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracts
subject to alternative payment protection.</i> See section <xref href="28.102-1.dita#FAR_28_102_1"
                              base="i1088251"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">28.102-1</xref>, paragraph (b)(1).
The security interest shall be maintained for the full contract
performance period plus 1 year.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e55">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Other
contracts not subject to the Bonds statute.</i> The security interest
shall be maintained for 90 days following final payment or until
completion of any warranty period (applicable only to performance
bonds), whichever is later.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>Upon
written request by the individual surety, the contracting officer
may release the security interest on the individual surety's assets
in support of a bid guarantee based upon evidence that the offer
supported by the individual surety will not result in contract award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1836e67">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>Upon
written request by the individual surety, the contracting officer
may release a portion of the security interest on the individual
surety's assets based upon substantial performance of the contractor's
obligations under its performance bond. Release of the security
interest in support of a payment bond must comply with the subparagraphs
(a)(1) through (3) of this section. In making this determination,
the contracting officer will give consideration as to whether the
unreleased portion of the security is sufficient to cover the remaining
contract obligations, including payments to subcontractors and other
potential liabilities. The individual surety shall, as a condition
of the partial release, furnish an affidavit agreeing that the release
of such assets does not relieve the individual surety of its obligations
under the bond(s).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
