<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_28_203_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">28.203-1</ph> Acceptability of individual
sureties.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="id212AB0D0LE9" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>An individual surety is acceptable for all types of bonds except position schedule bonds. Assets pledged by an individual surety shall meet the eligibility requirements of Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Per <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section9310&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">31 U.S.C. 9310</xref>, individual sureties must pledge eligible obligations, which Treasury refers to as acceptable collateral or eligible collateral. A list of acceptable assets, entitled “Acceptable Collateral for 31 CFR part 225,” may be accessed by going to 
                     <xref href="https://www.treasurydirect.gov/files/laws-and-regulations/collateral-programs/2018-final-225-list-of-acceptable-collateral.pdf"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://www.treasurydirect.gov/​files/​laws-and-regulations/​collateral-programs/​2018-final-225-list-of-acceptable-collateral.pdf</xref> and clicking on “Acceptable Collateral for 31 CFR part 225”.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>An individual
surety shall execute the bond (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, bid bond (<xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/bid-bond"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 24</xref>), performance bond
(<xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/performance-bond"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 25</xref>), payment
bond (<xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/payment-bond"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 25A</xref>)).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e40">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>The net
adjusted value of unencumbered assets is their market value minus
the margin. The margin tables are available at www.treasurydirect.gov.
The net adjusted value of unencumbered assets pledged by the individual
surety must equal or exceed the penal amount (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, face
value) of each bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>The individual
surety shall execute the <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/affidavit-individual-surety"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 28</xref>, Affidavit
of Individual Surety, and provide a security interest. One individual
surety is adequate support for a bond, provided the net adjusted
value of unencumbered assets pledged by that individual surety equals
or exceeds the amount of the bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e56">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>An offeror
or contractor may submit up to three individual sureties for each
bond, in which case the net adjusted value of the pledged unencumbered
assets, when combined, must equal or exceed the penal amount of
the bond. Each individual surety is jointly and severally liable
to the extent of the penal amount of the bond.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e61">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>Using the
information from the <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/affidavit-individual-surety"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 28</xref> submitted
by the offeror or contractor, the contracting officer shall notify
the Treasury's collateral operations support team by email at <xref href="mailto:BMT@fiscal.treasury.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">BMT@fiscal.treasury.gov</xref> or by phone
at 888-568-7343, of the individual surety, the assets to be pledged,
and the amount necessary to cover the individual surety bond, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>,
the required amount to be collateralized. Treasury will advise the
contracting officer whether the assets are eligible to be pledged,
consistent with <xref href="#FAR_28_203_1"
                        base="i1088251"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">28.203-1</xref>(a), and of the
valuation of the assets offered to be pledged, consistent with the
valuation standards in <xref href="#FAR_28_203_1"
                        base="i1088251"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">28.203-1</xref>(b)(2). If after
3 business days the contracting officer has not received a response
from Treasury, the contracting officer may seek assistance from
the Director, Bank Policy and Oversight, at 202-504-3502. The contracting
officer shall determine whether the individual surety bond is acceptable
as to the amount necessary to cover the individual surety bond based
on the asset eligibility and valuation assessment from Treasury.
The contracting officer shall notify both the offeror or contractor
and the individual surety of this determination.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e81">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>If the contracting
officer determines the individual surety is acceptable, the contracting
officer shall request the Treasury's collateral operations support
team set up the necessary individual surety pledged asset collateral
account.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e86">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>If the contracting
officer determines that no individual surety in support of a bid
guarantee is acceptable, the offeror utilizing the individual surety
shall be rejected as nonresponsible, except as provided in <xref href="28.101-4.dita#FAR_28_101_4"
                        base="i1088251"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">28.101-4</xref>. A finding of
nonresponsibility based on unacceptability of an individual surety,
need not be referred to the Small Business Administration for a
Certificate of Competency. (See <xref href="19.602-1.dita#FAR_19_602_1"
                        base="i1088251"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.602-1</xref>(a) and 61 Comp.
Gen. 456 (1982).)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e97">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>If a contractor
submits an unacceptable individual surety, or one that Treasury
could not assess the asset eligibility and valuation within a reasonable
time, then the contracting officer may permit the contractor to
substitute an acceptable surety within a reasonable time.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1834e102">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>Evidence
of possible criminal or fraudulent activities by an individual surety
shall be referred to the appropriate agency official in accordance
with agency procedures.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
