<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_28_202" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">28.202</ph> Acceptability of corporate
sureties.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1809e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1809e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e15">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        Corporate sureties offered
for bonds furnished with contracts performed in the United States
or its outlying areas must appear on the list contained in the Department
of the Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties (Treasury Department Circular
570), “Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable
Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable Reinsuring Companies.”
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e20">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        The penal amount of the
bond should not exceed the surety's underwriting limit stated in
the Treasury Department Circular 570. If the penal amount exceeds
the underwriting limit, the bond will be acceptable only if-</p>
                     <ol id="d1809e42" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e26">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
amount which exceeds the specified limit is coinsured or reinsured;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e31">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The amount
of coinsurance or reinsurance does not exceed the underwriting limit
of each coinsurer or reinsurer.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Coinsurance
or reinsurance agreements shall conform to the Department of the Treasury
(Treasury) regulations in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">31 CFR 223.10
and 223.11</ph>. When reinsurance is contemplated, the contracting
office generally shall require reinsurance agreements to be executed
and submitted with the bonds before making a final determination
on the bonds.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> When specified
in the solicitation, the contracting officer may accept a bond from
the direct writing company in satisfaction of the total bond requirement
of the contract. This is permissible until necessary reinsurance
agreements are executed, even though the total bond requirement
may exceed the insurer's underwriting limitation. The contractor
shall execute and submit necessary reinsurance agreements to the
contracting officer within the time specified on the bid form, which
may not exceed 45 calendar days after the execution of the bond.
The contractor shall use 
                           <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/reinsurance-agreement-bonds-statute-performance-bond"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">Standard Form (SF) 273</xref>, Reinsurance
Agreement for a Bonds Statute Performance Bond, and 
                           <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/reinsurance-agreement-bonds-statute-payment-bond"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 274</xref>, Reinsurance Agreement
for a Bonds Statute Payment Bond, when reinsurance is furnished
with the required performance or payment bonds. 
                           <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/reinsurance-agreement-favor-united-states"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 275</xref>, Reinsurance
Agreement in Favor of the United States, is used when reinsurance
is furnished with bonds for other purposes.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e58">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> For contracts
performed in a foreign country, sureties not appearing on Treasury
Department Circular 570 are acceptable if the contracting officer
determines that it is impracticable for the contractor to use Treasury
listed sureties.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e63">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  Treasury issues supplements
to Treasury Department Circular 570, notifying all Federal agencies
of new approved corporate surety companies and the termination of
the authority of any specific corporate surety to qualify as a surety
on Federal bonds. Upon receipt of notification of termination
of a company’s authority to qualify as a surety on Federal bonds, the
contracting officer shall review the outstanding contracts and take
action necessary to protect the Government, including, where appropriate,
securing new bonds with acceptable sureties in lieu of outstanding
bonds with the named company.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1832e68">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  Treasury Department Circular
570 may be obtained from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Bureau
of the Fiscal Service, Surety Bond Branch, 3201 Pennsy Drive, Building
E, Landover, MD 20785 or at <xref href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fsreports/ref/suretyBnd/c570.htm"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fsreports/ref/suretyBnd/c570.htm</xref>.
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
