<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="FAR_3_901"
            xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">3.901</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p>As used in this subpart-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d152e10">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.901" xtrc="d1e23">Abuse of authority</i> means an arbitrary and capricious exercise of authority that is inconsistent with the mission of the executive agency concerned or the successful performance of a contract of such agency.
         </p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.901" xtrc="d148e24">Authorized official of the Department of Justice</i> means any person responsible for the investigation, enforcement, or prosecution of any law or regulation.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d151e18">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.901" xtrc="d148e30">Inspector General</i> means an Inspector General appointed under chapter 4 of title 5 of the United States Code and any Inspector General that receives funding from, or has oversight over contracts awarded for, or on behalf of, the executive agency concerned. This definition does not apply to 3.907.
         </p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.901" xtrc="d148e39">Internal confidentiality agreement or statement</i> means a confidentiality agreement or any other written statement that the contractor requires any of its employees or subcontractors to sign regarding nondisclosure of contractor information, except that it does not include confidentiality agreements arising out of civil litigation or confidentiality agreements that contractor employees or subcontractors sign at the behest of a Federal agency.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.901" xtrc="d148e46">Subcontract</i> means any contract as defined in <xref href="Subpart_2.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_2_1" outputclass="fm:Subpart">subpart  2.1</xref> entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or a subcontract. It includes but is not limited to purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders.</p>
         <p>
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.901" xtrc="d148e55">Subcontractor</i> means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm (including a consultant) that furnishes supplies or services to or for a prime contractor or another subcontractor.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
