<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_31_205_42" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">31.205-42</ph> Termination costs.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d2002e8" class="- topic/p ">Contract terminations generally give rise to the incurrence of costs or the need for special treatment of costs that would not have arisen had the contract not been terminated. The following cost principles peculiar to termination situations are to be used in conjunction with the other cost principles in <xref href="Subpart_31.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_31_2"
                  base="i1084539"
                  outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                  class="- topic/xref ">subpart  31.2</xref>:</p>
         <ol id="d1972e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Common items.</i> The costs of items reasonably usable on the contractor’s other work shall not be allowable unless the contractor submits evidence that the items could not be retained at cost without sustaining a loss. The contracting officer should consider the contractor’s plans and orders for current and planned production when determining if items can reasonably be used on other work of the contractor. Contemporaneous purchases of common items by the contractor shall be regarded as evidence that such items are reasonably usable on the contractor’s other work. Any acceptance of common items as allocable to the terminated portion of the contract should be limited to the extent that the quantities of such items on hand, in transit, and on order are in excess of the reasonable quantitative requirements of other work.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e22">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Costs continuing after termination.</i> Despite all reasonable efforts by the contractor, costs which cannot be discontinued immediately after the effective date of termination are generally allowable. However, any costs continuing after the effective date of the termination due to the negligent or willful failure of the contractor to discontinue the costs shall be unallowable.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e29">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Initial costs.</i> Initial costs, including starting load and preparatory costs, are allowable as follows:</p>
               <ol id="d1972e59" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Starting load costs not fully absorbed because of termination are nonrecurring labor, material, and related overhead costs incurred in the early part of production and result from factors such as-</p>
                     <ol id="d1972e69" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e43">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Excessive spoilage due to inexperienced labor;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e48">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Idle time and subnormal production due to testing and changing production methods;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e53">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Training; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e58">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    Lack of familiarity or experience with the product, materials, or manufacturing processes.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Preparatory costs incurred in preparing to perform the terminated contract include such costs as those incurred for initial plant rearrangement and alterations, management and personnel organization, and production planning. They do not include special machinery and equipment and starting load costs.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                When initial costs are included in the settlement proposal as a direct charge, such costs shall not also be included in overhead. Initial costs attributable to only one contract shall not be allocated to other contracts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e73">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                If initial costs are claimed and have not been segregated on the contractor’s books, they shall be segregated for settlement purposes from cost reports and schedules reflecting that high unit cost incurred during the early stages of the contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e78">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                If the settlement proposal is on the inventory basis, initial costs should normally be allocated on the basis of total end items called for by the contract immediately before termination; however, if the contract includes end items of a diverse nature, some other equitable basis may be used, such as machine or labor hours.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e83">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Loss of useful value.</i> Loss of useful value of special tooling, and special machinery and equipment is generally allowable, provided-</p>
               <ol id="d1972e158" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e91">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The special tooling, or special machinery and equipment is not reasonably capable of use in the other work of the contractor;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e96">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The Government’s interest is protected by transfer of title or by other means deemed appropriate by the contracting officer; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e101">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The loss of useful value for any one terminated contract is limited to that portion of the acquisition cost which bears the same ratio to the total acquisition cost as the terminated portion of the contract bears to the entire terminated contract and other Government contracts for which the special tooling, or special machinery and equipment was acquired.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e106">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Rental under unexpired leases.</i> Rental costs under unexpired leases, less the residual value of such leases, are generally allowable when shown to have been reasonably necessary for the performance of the terminated contract, if-</p>
               <ol id="d1972e200" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e114">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The amount of rental claimed does not exceed the reasonable use value of the property leased for the period of the contract and such further period as may be reasonable; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e119">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The contractor makes all reasonable efforts to terminate, assign, settle, or otherwise reduce the cost of such lease.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e124">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alterations of leased property.</i> The cost of alterations and reasonable restorations required by the lease may be allowed when the alterations were necessary for performing the contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e131">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						            Settlement expenses.</p>
               <ol id="d1972e243" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e137">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Settlement expenses, including the following, are generally allowable:</p>
                     <ol id="d1972e253" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e143">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Accounting, legal, clerical, and similar costs reasonably necessary for-</p>
                           <ol id="d1972e263" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e149">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The preparation and presentation, including supporting data, of settlement claims to the contracting officer; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e154">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The termination and settlement of subcontracts.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e159">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Reasonable costs for the storage, transportation, protection, and disposition of property acquired or produced for the contract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e164">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Indirect costs related to salary and wages incurred as settlement expenses in (i) and (ii); normally, such indirect costs shall be limited to payroll taxes, fringe benefits, occupancy costs, and immediate supervision costs.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e169">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If settlement expenses are significant, a cost account or work order shall be established to separately identify and accumulate them.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1997e174">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor claims.</i> Subcontractor claims, including the allocable portion of the claims common to the contract and to other work of the contractor, are generally allowable. An appropriate share of the contractor’s indirect expense may be allocated to the amount of settlements with subcontractors; provided, that the amount allocated is reasonably proportionate to the relative benefits received and is otherwise consistent with <xref href="31.201-4.dita#FAR_31_201_4"
                        base="i1084576"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31.201-4</xref> and <xref href="31.203.dita#FAR_31_203"
                        base="i1084632"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31.203</xref>(d). The indirect expense so allocated shall exclude the same and similar costs claimed directly or indirectly as settlement expenses.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
