<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_32_005" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">32.005</ph> Consideration for contract
financing.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2003e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2028e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Requirement.</i> When a contract
financing clause is included at the inception of a contract, there
shall be no separate consideration for the contract financing clause.
The value of the contract financing to the contractor is expected
to be reflected in either (1)a bid or negotiated price that will
be lower than such price would have been in the absence of the contract
financing, or (2) contract terms and conditions, other than price,
that are more beneficial to the Government than they would have
been in the absence of the contract financing. Adequate new consideration
is required for changes to, or the addition of, contract financing
after award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2028e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Amount
of new consideration.</i> The contractor may provide new consideration
by monetary or nonmonetary means, provided the value is adequate.
The fair and reasonable consideration should approximate the amount
by which the price would have been less had the contract financing
terms been contained in the initial contract. In the absence of
definite information on this point, the contracting officer should
apply the following criteria in evaluating whether the proposed new
consideration is adequate:</p>
               <ol id="d2003e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2028e25">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The value to the contractor of
the anticipated amount and duration of the contract financing at
the imputed financial costs of the equivalent working capital.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2028e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The estimated
profit rate to be earned through contract performance.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2028e35">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Interest.</i> Except
as provided in <xref href="Subpart_32.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_4"
                        base="i1082560"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.4</xref>,
Advance Payments for Other
Than Commercial Acquisitions, the contract shall not provide
for any other type of specific charges, such as interest, for contract
financing.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
