<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_32_904" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">32.904</ph> Determining payment
due dates.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2154e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General.</i> Agency procedures
must ensure that, when specifying due dates, contracting officers
give full consideration to the time reasonably required by Government
officials to fulfill their administrative responsibilities under
the contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Payment
due dates</i>. Except as prescribed in paragraphs (c) through (f)
of this section, or as authorized in <xref href="32.908.dita#FAR_32_908"
                        base="i1081348"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.908</xref>(a)(2) or (c)(2),
the due date for making an invoice payment is as follows:</p>
               <ol id="d2154e41" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e28">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
later of the following two events:</p>
                     <ol id="d2154e51" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e34">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The 30 thday
after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from
the contractor (except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e39">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The 30
thday after Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services
performed.</p>
                           <ol id="d2154e70" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e45">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> For a final invoice, when the
payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions, acceptance
is deemed to occur on the effective date of the contract settlement.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e50">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> For the
sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due
the contractor-</p>
                                 <ol id="d2154e89" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e55" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e56">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Government acceptance is deemed
to occur constructively on the 7 thday after the contractor delivers supplies
or performs services in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the contract, unless there is a disagreement over quantity, quality,
or contractor compliance with a contract requirement;</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e60" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e61">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If actual acceptance occurs within
the constructive acceptance period, the Government must base the determination
of an interest penalty on the actual date of acceptance;</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e65" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e66">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The constructive acceptance requirement
does not compel Government officials to accept supplies or services,
perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior
to fulfilling their responsibilities; and</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e70" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e71">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Except for a contract for the
purchase of a commercial
product or commercial service, including a brand-name commercial
product for authorized resale (e.g.,commissary items), the
contracting officer may specify a longer period for constructive
acceptance in the solicitation and resulting contract, if required
to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to inspect and
test the supplies furnished or to evaluate the services performed.
The contracting officer must document in the contract file the justification
for extending the constructive acceptance period beyond 7 days.
Extended acceptance periods must not be a routine agency practice
and must be used only when necessary to permit proper Government
inspection and testing of the supplies delivered or services performed.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e76">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If the
contract does not require submission of an invoice for payment (e.g.,periodic
lease payments), the contracting officer must specify the due date
in the contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e81">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> If the
designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the
actual date of receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment
due date is the 30 thday after the date of the contractor's invoice,
provided the designated billing office receives a proper invoice
and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or contractor
compliance with contract requirements.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e86">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Architect-engineer
contracts.</p>
               <ol id="d2154e161" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e92">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The due date for making payments
on contracts that contain the clause at <xref href="52.232-10.dita#FAR_52_232_10"
                              base="i1049582"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.232-10</xref>, Payments Under
Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts, is as follows:</p>
                     <ol id="d2154e174" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e101">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
due date for work or services completed by the contractor is the
later of the following two events:</p>
                           <ol id="d2154e184" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e107">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> The 30 thday
after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from
the contractor.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e112">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> The 30
thday after Government acceptance of the work or services completed
by the contractor.</p>
                                 <ol id="d2154e203" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e117" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e118">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> For a final invoice, when the
payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> release
of claims), acceptance is deemed to occur on the effective date
of the settlement.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e125" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e126">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For the sole purpose of computing
an interest penalty that might be due the contractor, Government
acceptance is deemed to occur constructively on the 7 thday after
the contractor completes the work or services in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the contract (see also paragraph (c)(2)
of this section). If actual acceptance occurs within the constructive
acceptance period, the Government must base the determination of
an interest penalty on the actual date of acceptance.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e131">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The due
date for progress payments is the 30 thday after Government approval
of contractor estimates of work or services accomplished. For the
sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due
the contractor-</p>
                           <ol id="d2154e238" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e137">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Government approval is deemed
to occur constructively on the 7 thday after the designated billing
office receives the contractor estimates (see also paragraph (c)(2)
of this section).</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e142">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> If actual
approval occurs within the constructive approval period, the Government
must base the determination of an interest penalty on the actual
date of approval.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e147">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> If the
designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice or payment
request with the actual date of receipt at the time of receipt,
the payment due date is the 30 thday after the date of the contractor’s
invoice or payment request, provided the designated billing office
receives a proper invoice or payment request and there is no disagreement
over quantity, quality, or contractor compliance with contract requirements.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e152">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The constructive
acceptance and constructive approval requirements described in paragraphs
(c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are conditioned upon receipt
of a proper payment request and no disagreement over quantity, quality,
contractor compliance with contract requirements, or the requested
progress payment amount. These requirements do not compel Government
officials to accept work or services, approve contractor estimates,
perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior
to fulfilling their responsibilities. The contracting officer may
specify a longer period for constructive acceptance or constructive
approval, if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity
to inspect and test the supplies furnished or to evaluate the services
performed. The contracting officer must document in the contract
file the justification for extending the constructive acceptance
or approval period beyond 7 days.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e157">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Construction
contracts.</p>
               <ol id="d2154e290" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e163">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The due date for making payments
on construction contracts is as follows:</p>
                     <ol id="d2154e300" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e169">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The due date
for making progress payments based on contracting officer approval
of the estimated amount and value of work or services performed,
including payments for reaching milestones in any project, is 14
days after the designated billing office receives a proper payment
request.</p>
                           <ol id="d2154e310" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e175">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> If the designated billing office
fails to annotate the payment request with the actual date of receipt
at the time of receipt, the payment due date is the 14 thday after
the date of the contractor’s payment request, provided the designated
billing office receives a proper payment request and there is no
disagreement over quantity, quality, or contractor compliance with
contract requirements.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e180">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> The contracting
officer may specify a longer period in the solicitation and resulting
contract if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity
to adequately inspect the work and to determine the adequacy of
the contractor’s performance under the contract. The contracting
officer must document in the contract file the justification for
extending the due date beyond 14 days.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e185">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> The contracting
officer must not approve progress payment requests unless the certification
and substantiation of amounts requested are provided as required
by the clause at <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                                          base="i1049425"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref>,
Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e193">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The due
date for payment of any amounts retained by the contracting officer
in accordance with the clause at <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                                    base="i1049425"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref>, Payments Under
Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, will be as specified in the
contract or, if not specified, 30 days after approval by the contracting
officer for release to the contractor. The contracting officer must base
the release of retained amounts on the contracting officer’s determination
that satisfactory progress has been made.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e201">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
due date for final payments based on completion and acceptance of
all work (including any retained amounts), and payments for partial
deliveries that have been accepted by the Government (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> each
separate building, public work, or other division of the contract
for which the price is stated separately in the contract) is as
follows:</p>
                           <ol id="d2154e367" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e210">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> The later of the following two
events:</p>
                                 <ol id="d2154e377" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e215" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e216">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The 30 thday after the designated
billing office receives a proper invoice from the contractor.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="32.904_d47e220" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e221">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The 30 thday after Government
acceptance of the work or services completed by the contractor.
For a final invoice, when the payment amount is subject to contract
settlement actions (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> release of contractor claims),
acceptance is deemed to occur on the effective date of the contract
settlement.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e229">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> If the
designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the
actual date of receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment
due date is the 30 thday after the date of the contractor’s invoice,
provided the designated billing office receives a proper invoice
and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or contractor compliance
with contract requirements.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e234">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For the
sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due
the contractor for payments described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of
this section-</p>
                     <ol id="d2154e423" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e240">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Government acceptance or approval
is deemed to occur constructively on the 7 thday after the contractor
completes the work or services in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the contract, unless there is a disagreement over
quantity, quality, contractor compliance with a contract requirement,
or the requested amount;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e245">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> If actual
acceptance occurs within the constructive acceptance period, the
Government must base the determination of an interest penalty on
the actual date of acceptance;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e250">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
constructive acceptance requirement does not compel Government officials
to accept work or services, approve contractor estimates, perform
contract administration functions, or make payment prior to fulfilling
their responsibilities; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e255">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> The contracting
officer may specify a longer period for constructive acceptance
or constructive approval in the solicitation and resulting contract,
if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to
adequately inspect the work and to determine the adequacy of the
contractor’s performance under the contract. The contracting officer
must document in the contract file the justification for extending
the constructive acceptance or approval beyond 7 days.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e260">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Construction
contracts contain special provisions concerning contractor payments
to subcontractors, along with special contractor certification requirements.
The Office of Management and Budget has determined that these certifications
must not be construed as final acceptance of the subcontractor’s
performance. The certification in <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                              base="i1049425"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref>(c) implements
this determination; however, certificates are still acceptable if
the contractor deletes paragraph (c)(4) of <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                              base="i1049425"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref> from the certificate.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e271">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d2154e486" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e276">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Paragraph
(d) of the clause at <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                                    base="i1049425"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref>,
Payments under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, and paragraph (e)(6)
of the clause at <xref href="52.232-27.dita#FAR_52_232_27"
                                    base="i1050318"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-27</xref>,
Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts, provide for the contractor
to pay interest on unearned amounts in certain circumstances. The
Government must recover this interest from subsequent payments to
the contractor. Therefore, contracting officers normally must make
no demand for payment. Contracting officers must-</p>
                           <ol id="d2154e502" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e288">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Compute
the amount in accordance with the clause;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e293">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Provide
the contractor with a final decision; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e298">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> Notify
the payment office of the amount to be withheld.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e303">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The payment
office is responsible for making the deduction of interest. Amounts
collected in accordance with these provisions revert to the United
States Treasury.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e308">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost-reimbursement
contracts for services.</i> For purposes of computing late payment
interest penalties that may apply, the due date for making interim
payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for services is 30 days
after the date of receipt of a proper invoice.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e315">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Food
and specified items</i>.</p>
               <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1" class="- topic/table ">
                  <tgroup cols="2"
                          colsep="1"
                          rowsep="1"
                          outputclass="Notitle_rule"
                          class="- topic/tgroup ">
                     <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="68*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="32*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                        <row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_Ctr"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">If
the items delivered are:</entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_Ctr"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Payment
must be made as close as possible to, but not later than:</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p id="d2181e337" class="- topic/p ">(1) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Meat or
meat food products</i>. As defined in section 2(a)(3) of the Packers
and Stockyard Act of 1921 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section182(3)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                       scope="external"
                                       format="html">7 U.S.C. 182(3)</xref>), and
as further defined in Public Law98-181, including any edible fresh
or frozen poultry meat, any perishable poultry meat food product, fresh
eggs, and any perishable egg product.</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="left"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_Left"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">7th
day after product delivery.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p id="d2181e352" class="- topic/p ">(2) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Fresh or
frozen fish</i>. As defined in section 204(3) of the Fish and Seafood
Promotion Act of 1986 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4003(3)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                       scope="external"
                                       format="html">16 U.S.C. 4003(3)</xref>).</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="left"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_Left"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">7th
day after product delivery.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p id="d2181e367" class="- topic/p ">(3) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Perishable
agricultural commodities</i>. As defined in section 1(4) of the
Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act of 1930 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section499a&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                       scope="external"
                                       format="html">7 U.S.C. 499a</xref>(4)).</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="left"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_Left"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">10th
day after product delivery, unless another date is specified in
the contract.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p id="d2181e382" class="- topic/p ">(4) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Dairy products</i>.
As defined in section 111(e) of the Dairy Production Stabilization Act
of 1983 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4502(e)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                       scope="external"
                                       format="html">7 U.S.C. 4502(e)</xref>),
edible fats or oils, and food products prepared from edible fats
or oils. Liquid milk, cheese, certain processed cheese products,
butter, yogurt, ice cream, mayonnaise, salad dressings, and other
similar products fall within this classification. Nothing in the
Act limits this classification to refrigerated products. If questions
arise regarding the proper classification of a specific product,
the contracting officer must follow prevailing industry practices
in specifying a contract payment due date. The burden of proof that
a classification of a specific product is, in fact, prevailing industry
practice is upon the contractor making the representation.</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="left"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_Left"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">10th
day after a proper invoice has been received.</entry>
                        </row>
                     </tbody>
                  </tgroup>
               </table>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e380">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Multiple
payment due dates</i>. Contracting officers may encourage, but not
require, contractors to submit separate invoices for products with
different payment due dates under the same contract or order. When
an invoice contains items with different payment due dates (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>a
mixed invoice), the payment office will, subject to agency policy-</p>
               <ol id="d2154e732" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e391">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Pay
the entire invoice on the earliest due date; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2179e396">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Split
invoice payments, making payments by the applicable due dates.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
