<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_33_207" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">33.207</ph> Contractor certification.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2201e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Contractors shall provide the certification specified in paragraph (c) of this section when submitting any claim exceeding $100,000.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The certification requirement does not apply to issues in controversy that have not been submitted as all or part of a claim.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The certification shall state as follows:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e24">I certify that the claim is made in good faith; that the supporting data are accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief; that the amount requested accurately reflects the contract adjustment for which the contractor believes the Government is liable; and that I am duly authorized to certify the claim on behalf of the contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The aggregate amount of both increased and decreased costs shall be used in determining when the dollar thresholds requiring certification are met (see example in <xref href="15.403-4.dita#FAR_15_403_4"
                        base="i1106066"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.403-4</xref>(a)(1)(iii) regarding certified cost or pricing data).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e35">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            The certification may be executed by any person authorized to bind the contractor with respect to the claim.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2226e40">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            A defective certification shall not deprive a court or an agency BCA of jurisdiction over that claim. Prior to the entry of a final judgment by a court or a decision by an agency BCA, however, the court or agency BCA shall require a defective certification to be corrected.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
