<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_33_214" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">33.214</ph> Alternative dispute resolution (ADR).</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2208e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The objective of using ADR procedures is to increase the opportunity for relatively inexpensive and expeditious resolution of issues in controversy. Essential elements of ADR include-</p>
               <ol id="d2208e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Existence of an issue in controversy;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                A voluntary election by both parties to participate in the ADR process;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                An agreement on alternative procedures and terms to be used in lieu of formal litigation; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                Participation in the process by officials of both parties who have the authority to resolve the issue in controversy.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            If the contracting officer rejects a contractor’s request for ADR proceedings, the contracting officer shall provide the contractor a written explanation citing one or more of the conditions in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section572(b)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">5 U.S.C. 572(b)</xref> or such other specific reasons that ADR procedures are inappropriate for the resolution of the dispute. In any case where a contractor rejects a request of an agency for ADR proceedings, the contractor shall inform the agency in writing of the contractor’s specific reasons for rejecting the request.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            ADR procedures may be used at any time that the contracting officer has authority to resolve the issue in controversy. If a claim has been submitted, ADR procedures may be applied to all or a portion of the claim. When ADR procedures are used subsequent to the issuance of a contracting officer’s final decision, their use does not alter any of the time limitations or procedural requirements for filing an appeal of the contracting officer’s final decision and does not constitute a reconsideration of the final decision.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            When appropriate, a neutral person may be used to facilitate resolution of the issue in controversy using the procedures chosen by the parties.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e54">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            The confidentiality of ADR proceedings shall be protected consistent with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section574&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">5 U.S.C. 574</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2208e114" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e67">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                A solicitation shall not require arbitration as a condition of award, unless arbitration is otherwise required by law. Contracting officers should have flexibility to select the appropriate ADR procedure to resolve the issues in controversy as they arise.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e72">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                An agreement to use arbitration shall be in writing and shall specify a maximum award that may be issued by the arbitrator, as well as any other conditions limiting the range of possible outcomes.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2233e77">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						            Binding arbitration, as an ADR procedure, may be agreed to only as specified in agency guidelines. Such guidelines shall provide advice on the appropriate use of binding arbitration and when an agency has authority to settle an issue in controversy through binding arbitration.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
