<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/">
   <concept id="FAR_34_005_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">34.005-2</ph> Mission-oriented solicitation.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2220e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Before issuing the solicitation, whenever practicable and consistent with agency procedures, the contracting officer should take the actions outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2):</p>
               <ol id="d2220e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Advance notification of the acquisition should be given the widest practicable dissemination, including publicizing through the Governmentwide point of entry (see <xref href="Subpart_5.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_5_2"
                              base="i1120661"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  5.2</xref>) and should be sent to as wide a selection of potential sources as practicable, including smaller and newer firms, Government laboratories, federally funded research and development centers, educational institutions and other not-for-profit organizations, and, if it would be beneficial and is not prohibited, foreign sources.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e24">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If appropriate, hold a presolicitation conference (see <xref href="15.201.dita#FAR_15_201"
                              base="i1108766"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.201</xref>) and/or send copies of the proposed solicitation to all prospective offerors for their comments. After evaluation of these comments, the solicitation should be revised, if appropriate.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall send the final solicitation to all prospective offerors. It shall-</p>
               <ol id="d2220e59" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Describe the nature of the need in terms of mission capabilities required, without reference to any specific systems to satisfy the need;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e43">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Indicate, and explain when appropriate, the schedule, capability, and cost objectives and any known constraints in the acquisition;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Provide, or indicate how access can be obtained to, all Government data related to the acquisition;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e53">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                Include selection requirements consistent with the acquisition strategy; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e58">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                Clearly state that each offeror is free to propose its own technical approach, main design features, subsystems, and alternatives to schedule, cost, and capability goals.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
								                Require the use of an Earned Value Management System that complies with the guidelines of Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748) (current version at time of solicitation). See <xref href="34.201.dita#FAR_34_201"
                              base="i1079908"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">34.201</xref> for earned value management systems and reporting requirements.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2245e71">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            To the extent practicable, the solicitation shall not reference or mandate Government specifications or standards, unless the agency is mandating a subsystem or other component as approved under agency procedure.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
