<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_36_102"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">36.102</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this part-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e18"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract</i> is intended to refer to a contract for construction or a contract for architect-engineer services, unless another meaning is clearly intended.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e24"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Design</i> means defining the construction requirement (including the functional relationships and technical systems to be used, such as architectural, environmental, structural, electrical, mechanical, and fire protection), producing the technical specifications and drawings, and preparing the construction cost estimate.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e30"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Design-bid-build</i> means the traditional delivery method where design and construction are sequential and contracted for separately with two contracts and two contractors.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e36"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Design-build</i> means combining design and construction in a single contract with one contractor.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e43"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Firm</i> in conjunction with architect-engineer services, means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity permitted by law to practice the professions of architecture or engineering.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e49"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Plans and specifications</i> means drawings, specifications, and other data for and preliminary to the construction.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e55"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Record drawings</i> means drawings submitted by a contractor or subcontractor at any tier to show the construction of a particular structure or work as actually completed under the contract.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_36.102"
               xtrc="d2292e61"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Two-phase design-build selection procedures</i> is a selection method in which a limited number of offerors (normally five or fewer) is selected during Phase One to submit detailed proposals for Phase Two (see <xref href="Subpart_36.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_36_3"
                  base="i1078838"
                  outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                  class="- topic/xref ">subpart  36.3</xref>).</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
