<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_36_606"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">36.606</ph> Negotiations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2338e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2363e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Unless otherwise specified by the selection authority, the final selection authorizes the contracting officer to begin negotiations. Negotiations shall be conducted in accordance with <xref href="Part_15.dita#FAR_Part_15"
                        base="i1109360"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  15</xref> of this chapter, beginning with the most preferred firm in the final selection (see <xref href="15.404-4.dita#FAR_15_404_4"
                        base="i1106321"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.404-4</xref>(c)(4)(i) on fee limitation).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2363e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The contracting officer should ordinarily request a proposal from the firm, ensuring that the solicitation does not inadvertently preclude the firm from proposing the use of modern design methods.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2363e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall inform the firm that no construction contract may be awarded to the firm that designed the project, except as provided in <xref href="36.209.dita#FAR_36_209"
                        base="i1078982"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">36.209</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2363e34" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            During negotiations, the contracting officer should seek advance agreement (see <xref href="31.109.dita#FAR_31_109"
                        base="i1086218"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31.109</xref>) on any charges for computer-assisted design. When the firm’s proposal does not cover appropriate modern and cost-effective design methods (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> computer-assisted design), the contracting officer should discuss this topic with the firm.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2363e45" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Because selection of firms is based upon qualifications, the extent of any subcontracting is an important negotiation topic. The clause prescribed at <xref href="44.204.dita#FAR_44_204"
                        base="i1073622"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">44.204</xref>(b), Subcontractors and Outside Associates and Consultants (Architect-Engineer Services) (see <xref href="52.244-4.dita#FAR_52_244_4"
                        base="i1048391"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.244-4</xref>), limits a firm’s subcontracting to firms agreed upon during negotiations.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2363e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            If a mutually satisfactory contract cannot be negotiated, the contracting officer shall obtain a written final proposal revision from the firm, and notify the firm that negotiations have been terminated. The contracting officer shall then initiate negotiations with the next firm on the final selection list. This procedure shall be continued until a mutually satisfactory contract has been negotiated. If negotiations fail with all selected firms, the contracting officer shall refer the matter to the selection authority who, after consulting with the contracting officer as to why a contract cannot be negotiated, may direct the evaluation board to recommend additional firms in accordance with <xref href="36.602.dita#FAR_36_602"
                        base="i1078362"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">36.602</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
