<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="FAR_39_102" xtrc="" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "> <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">39.102</ph> Modular contracting.</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><ol id="d2418e13" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2440e10" class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>  Agencies should use modular contracting (i.e., use one or more contracts to acquire information technology systems in successive, interoperable increments) to acquire major systems of information technology, to the maximum extent possible (see 41 U.S.C. 2308). Agencies may also use modular contracting to acquire non-major systems of information technology.</p>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2440e18" class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>  When acquiring an information technology system (i.e., either a major system or non-major system), it may be divided into several smaller increments (see 41 U.S.C. 2308(c)) that—</p><ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Are easier to manage individually than would be possible in one comprehensive acquisition;</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Address complex information technology objectives incrementally to enhance the likelihood of achieving workable systems or solutions for attainment of those objectives;</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Provide for delivery, implementation, and testing of workable systems or solutions in discrete increments, each of which comprises a system or solution that is not dependent on any subsequent increment in order to perform its principal functions; and</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Provide an opportunity for subsequent increments to take advantage of any evolution in technology or needs that occur during implementation and use of the earlier increments.</p></li></ol>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2440e23" class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> To promote compatibility, each increment should comply with common or commercially acceptable information technology standards when available and appropriate, and be compatible with other (including earlier and later) increments.</p>
            </li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> When using modular contracting, agencies should, to the maximum extent possible—</p><ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Award a contract for an increment within 180 days after the date on which the solicitation is issued. If an award cannot be made within 180 days, agencies should consider cancelling the solicitation in accordance with 14.209 or 15.206(e).</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Schedule deliveries under the contract to occur within 18 months after the solicitation was issued.</p></li></ol></li></ol></conbody></concept></dita>