<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_39_205"
            rev="FAC 2021-07 September 10, 2021"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">39.205</ph> 
         <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2017-011?>Exemptions.<?FM MARKER [Why] Revise sections 39.203 and 39.204, and add section 39.205.?></title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2450e12" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Allowable
exemptions.</i> An agency may grant an exemption for the following:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2450e20" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Undue
burden.</i> When an agency determines the acquisition of ICT conforming
with all the applicable ICT accessibility standards would impose
an undue burden on the agency, compliance with the ICT accessibility
standards is only required to the extent that it would not impose
an undue burden. In determining whether conformance to one or more ICT
accessibility standards would impose an undue burden, an agency
shall consider the extent to which conformance would impose significant
difficulty or expense considering the agency resources available
to the program or component for which the ICT supply or service
is being procured.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2450e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Fundamental
alteration.</i> When an agency determines that acquisition of ICT
that conforms with all applicable ICT accessibility standards would
result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the ICT, such
acquisition is required to conform only to the extent that conformance
will not result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the
ICT.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2450e34" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Nonavailability
of conforming commercial items.</i> Where there are no commercial
items that fully conform to the ICT accessibility standards, the
agency shall procure the supplies or service available in the commercial
marketplace that best meets the ICT accessibility standards consistent
with the agency's needs.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2450e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternative
means of access.</i>An agency shall provide individuals with disabilities
access to and use of information and data by an alternative means
to meet the identified needs when an exemption in paragraphs (a)(1),
(2), or (3) of this section applies.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2450e48" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Documentation.</i> When
an exemption applies, the contracting officer shall obtain, as part
of the requirements documentation, a written determination from
the requiring activity explaining the basis for the exemption in
paragraphs (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section. This documentation
shall be maintained in the contract file.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2450e56" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Undue burden.</i> A determination
of undue burden shall address why and to what extent compliance
with applicable ICT accessibility standards constitutes an undue
burden.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2450e63" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Fundamental
alteration.</i> A determination of fundamental alteration shall
address the extent to which compliance with the applicable ICT accessibility
standards would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature
of the ICT.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2450e70" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Nonavailability
of conforming commercial items.</i> A determination of commercial
items nonavailability shall include—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2450e78" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>A description of the market research
performed;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2450e83" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>A listing
of the requirements that cannot be met; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2450e88" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>The rationale
for determining that the ICT to be procured best meets the ICT accessibility
standards in <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/select-citation/2021/08/11/36-CFR-1194.1"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">36 CFR 1194.1</xref>,
consistent with the agency's needs.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
