<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_4_203" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">4.203</ph> Taxpayer identification
information.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d201e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> If the contractor has furnished
a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) when completing the solicitation
provision at <xref href="52.204-3.dita#FAR_52_204_3"
                        base="i1063736"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-3</xref>, Taxpayer Identification,
or paragraph (l) of the solicitation provision at <xref href="52.212-3.dita#FAR_52_212_3"
                        base="i1060550"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-3</xref>, Offeror Representations and
Certifications-Commercial
Products and Commercial Services, the contracting officer shall,
unless otherwise provided in agency procedures, attach a copy of
the completed solicitation provision as the last page of the copy
of the contract sent to the payment office.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> If the TIN
or type of organization is derived from a source other than the
provision at <xref href="52.204-3.dita#FAR_52_204_3"
                        base="i1063736"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-3</xref> or <xref href="52.212-3.dita#FAR_52_212_3"
                        base="i1060550"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-3</xref>(l), the contracting
officer shall annotate the last page of the contract or order forwarded
to the payment office to state the contractor’s TIN and type of
organization, unless this information is otherwise provided to the
payment office in accordance with agency procedures.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> If the contractor
provides its TIN or type of organization to the contracting officer
after award, the contracting officer shall forward the information
to the payment office within 7 days of its receipt.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e37">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal
Supply Schedule contracts.</i> Each contracting officer that places
an order under a Federal Supply Schedule contract (see <xref href="Subpart_8.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_8_4"
                        base="i1117301"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  8.4</xref>) shall
provide the TIN and type of organization information to the payment
office in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Basic
ordering agreements and indefinite-delivery contracts (other than
Federal Supply Schedule contracts).</p>
               <ol id="d201e77" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e53">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Each contracting
officer that issues a basic ordering agreement or indefinite-delivery
contract (other than a Federal Supply Schedule contract) shall provide
to contracting officers placing orders under the agreement or contract
(if the contractor is not required to provide this information to
the System for Award Management)-</p>
                     <ol id="d201e87" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e59">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> A copy of the
agreement or contract with a copy of the completed solicitation
provision at <xref href="52.204-3.dita#FAR_52_204_3"
                                    base="i1063736"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.204-3</xref> or <xref href="52.212-3.dita#FAR_52_212_3"
                                    base="i1060550"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.212-3</xref>(l) as the last
page of the agreement or contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e70">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The contractor’s
TIN and type of organization information.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d203e75">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Each contracting
officer that places an order under a basic ordering agreement or
indefinite-delivery contract (other than a Federal Supply Schedule
contract) shall provide the TIN and type of organization information
to the payment office in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of
this section.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
