<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_4_402"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">4.402</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d209e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d211e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Executive Order12829, January
6, 1993 (58 FR3479, January 8, 1993), entitled "National Industrial
Security Program" (NISP), establishes a program to safeguard Federal
Government classified information that is released to contractors, licensees,
and grantees of the United States Government. Executive Order 12829
amends Executive Order 10865, February 20, 1960 (25 FR1583, February
25, 1960), entitled "Safeguarding Classified Information Within
Industry," as amended by Executive Order 10909, January 17, 1961
(26 FR508, January 20, 1961).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d211e15" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The National
Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) incorporates
the requirements of these Executive orders. The Secretary of Defense,
in consultation with all affected agencies and with the concurrence
of the Secretary of Energy, the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, is responsible for issuance and maintenance of
this Manual. The following publications implement the program:</p>
               <ol id="d209e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d211e21" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> National
Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) (32 CFR part
117).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d211e26" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> DoD Manual
5220.22, Volume 2, National Industrial Security Program: Industrial
Security Procedures for Government Activities.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d211e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Procedures
for the protection of information relating to foreign classified
contracts awarded to U.S. industry, and instructions for the protection
of U.S. information relating to classified contracts awarded to
foreign firms, are prescribed in 32 CFR 117.19.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d211e36" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Nondefense
agencies that have industrial security services agreements with
DoD, and DoD components, shall use the DD Form 254, Contract Security
Classification Specification, to provide security classification
guidance to U.S. contractors, and subcontractors as applicable,
requiring access to information classified as "Confidential", "Secret",
or "Top Secret".</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d211e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Provided
that the data submittal is unclassified, the DD Form 254 shall be
completed electronically in the NISP Contract Classification System
(NCCS), which is accessible at <ph rev="FAC 2022-06  May 1, 2022" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] Technical Amendment?>
                           <xref href="https://tesseract.cloud.dcsa.mil/nccs"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">https://tesseract.cloud.dcsa.mil/nccs</xref>.<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 4.402 by removing from paragraph (d)(1) the phrase “via the Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE) at https://wawf.eb.mil” and adding “https://www.dcsa.mil/is/nccs” in its place.?></ph> Nondefense
agencies with an existing DD Form 254 information system may use
that system.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d211e54" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d211e59" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> A contractor,
or subcontractor (if applicable), requiring access to classified
information under a contract shall be identified with a Commercial
and Government Entity (CAGE) code on the DD Form 254 (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_4.18.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_18"
                                    base="FAR_Subpart_4_18"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">4.18</xref> for
information on obtaining and validating CAGE codes).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d211e67" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Each location
of contractor or subcontractor performance listed on the DD Form
254 is required to reflect a corresponding unique CAGE code for
each listed location unless the work is being performed at a Government facility,
in which case the agency location code shall be used. Each subcontractor
location requiring access to classified information must be listed
on the DD Form 254.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d211e72" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Contractor
and subcontractor performance locations listed on the DD Form 254
are not required to be separately registered in the System for Award
Management (SAM) solely for the purposes of a DD Form 254 (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_4.11.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_11"
                                    base="FAR_Subpart_4_11"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">4.11</xref> for
information on registering in SAM).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d211e80" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Part  27,
Patents, Data, and Copyrights, contains policy and procedures for
safeguarding classified information in patent applications and patents.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
