<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_4_603" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">4.603</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d220e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d222e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            In accordance with the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282), all unclassified Federal award data must be publicly accessible.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d222e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						            Executive agencies shall use FPDS to maintain publicly available information about all unclassified contract actions exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, and any modifications to those actions that change previously reported contract action report data, regardless of dollar value.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d222e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            Agencies awarding assisted acquisitions or direct acquisitions must report these actions and identify the Program/Funding Agency and Office Codes from the applicable agency codes maintained by each agency at FPDS. These codes represent the agency and office that has provided the predominant amount of funding for the contract action. For assisted acquisitions, the requesting agency will receive socioeconomic credit for meeting agency small business goals, where applicable. Requesting agencies shall provide the appropriate agency/bureau component code as part of the written interagency agreement between the requesting and servicing agencies (see <xref href="17.502-1.dita#FAR_17_502_1"
                        base="i1102811"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">17.502-1</xref>(a)(1)).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d222e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						            Agencies awarding contract actions with a mix of appropriated and non-appropriated funding shall only report the full appropriated portion of the contract action in FPDS.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
