<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_42_402" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">42.402</ph> Visits to contractors’ facilities.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2474e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Government personnel planning to visit a contractor’s facility in connection with one or more Government contracts shall provide the cognizant CAO with the following information, sufficiently in advance to permit the CAO to make necessary arrangements. Such notification is for the purpose of eliminating duplicative reviews, requests, investigations, and audits relating to the contract administration functions in <xref href="Subpart_42.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_42_3"
                        base="i1075694"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  42.3</xref> delegated to CAO’s and shall, as a minimum, include the following (see also paragraph (b) of this section):</p>
               <ol id="d2474e26" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e19">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Visitors’ names, official positions, and security clearances.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e24">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Date and duration of visit.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Name and address of contractor and personnel to be contacted.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                Contract number, program involved, and purpose of visit.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                If desired, visitors to a contractor’s plant may request that a representative of the CAO accompany them. In any event, the CAO has final authority to decide whether a representative shall accompany a visitor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            If the visit will result in reviewing, auditing, or obtaining any information from the contractor relating to contract administration functions, the prospective visitor shall identify the information in sufficient detail so as to permit the CAO, after consultation with the contractor and the cognizant audit office, to determine whether such information, adequate to fulfill the requirement, has recently been reviewed by or is available within the Government. If so, the CAO will discourage the visit and refer the prospective visitor to the Government office where such information is located. Where the office is the CAO, such information will be immediately forwarded or otherwise made available to the requestor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2497e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Visitors shall fully inform the CAO of any agreements reached with the contractor or other results of the visit that may affect the CAO.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
