<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_43_304" xtrc="" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">43.304</ph> Administration.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2569e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e10"> 
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> 
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Change order documentation.</i> When change orders are not forward priced, they require two documents: the change order and a supplemental agreement reflecting the resulting equitable adjustment in contract terms. If an equitable adjustment in the contract price or delivery terms or both can be agreed upon in advance, only a supplemental agreement need be issued, but administrative changes and changes issued pursuant to a clause giving the Government a unilateral right to make a change (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> an option clause) initially require only one document.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e20"> 
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> 
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitization.</i> 
               </p>
               <ol id="d2569e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e26"> 
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> 
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2597e31"> 
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Contracting officers shall negotiate equitable adjustments resulting from change orders in the shortest practicable time. </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2597e39"> 
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Agencies shall, in accordance with agency procedures, record and maintain data regarding the time required to definitize equitable adjustments associated with change orders for construction. The definitization of an equitable adjustment begins upon receipt of an adequate change order definitization proposal by the contracting officer, and ends upon the contracting officer's execution of a contractual action to definitize the change order. The contracting officer shall ensure the data is recorded promptly in accordance with agency procedures. See 36.211(b). </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e31"> 
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Administrative contracting officers negotiating equitable adjustments by delegation under 42.302(b)(1), shall obtain the contracting officer’s concurrence before adjusting the contract delivery schedule.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e98"> 
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> 
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete and final equitable adjustments.</i> To avoid subsequent controversies that may result from a supplemental agreement containing an equitable adjustment as the result of a change order, the contracting officer should—</p>
               <ol id="d2569e180" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e106"> 
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Ensure that all elements of the equitable adjustment have been presented and resolved; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e111"> 
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Include, in the supplemental agreement, a release similar to the following:</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e115" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Contractor’s Statement of Release</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2595e117">In consideration of the modification(s) agreed to herein as complete equitable adjustments for the Contractor’s _______ (describe) _________ "proposal(s) for adjustment," the Contractor hereby releases the Government from any and all liability under this contract for further equitable adjustments attributable to such facts or circumstances giving rise to the "proposal(s) for adjustment" (except for ____________).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
