<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_44_302"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">44.302</ph> Requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2588e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2614e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The ACO shall determine the need
for a CPSR based on, but not limited to, the past performance of
the contractor, and the volume, complexity and dollar value of subcontracts.
If a contractor’s sales to the Government (excluding competitively
awarded firm-fixed-price and competitively awarded fixed-price with
economic price adjustment contracts and sales of <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>commercial supplies and
commercial <?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 44.302 by removing from paragraph (a) the terms “commercial items” and “Part 12” and adding “commercial products and commercial services” and “part 12” in their places, respectively.?>services</ph> pursuant to <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">
                     <xref href="Part_12.dita#FAR_Part_12"
                           base="i1113784"
                           outputclass="fm:Part"
                           class="- topic/xref ">part  12</xref>)</ph> are expected
to exceed $25 million during the next 12 months, perform a review
to determine if a CPSR is needed. Sales include those represented
by prime contracts, subcontracts under Government prime contracts,
and modifications. Generally, a CPSR is not performed for a specific
contract. The head of the agency responsible for contract administration
may raise or lower the $25 million review level if it is considered
to be in the Government’s best interest.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2614e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Once an
initial determination has been made under paragraph (a) of this
section, at least every three years the ACO shall determine whether
a purchasing system review is necessary. If necessary, the cognizant
contract administration office will conduct a purchasing system
review.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
