<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_46_710"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">46.710</ph> Contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d2733e8" class="- topic/p ">The clauses and alternates prescribed in this section may be used in solicitations and contracts in which inclusion of a warranty is appropriate (see <xref href="46.709.dita#FAR_46_709"
                  base="i1071926"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">46.709</xref> for warranties for commercial items). However, because of the many situations that may influence the warranty terms and conditions appropriate to a particular acquisition, the contracting officer may vary the terms and conditions of the clauses and alternates to the extent necessary. The alternates prescribed in this section address the clauses; however, the conditions pertaining to each alternate must be considered if the terms and conditions are varied to meet a particular need.</p>
         <ol id="d2702e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2728e15" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2702e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e20" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer may insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at <xref href="52.246-17.dita#FAR_52_246_17"
                              base="i1047153"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.246-17</xref>, Warranty of Supplies of a Noncomplex Nature, in solicitations and contracts for noncomplex items when a fixed-price supply contract is contemplated and the use of a warranty clause has been approved under agency procedures. If the contractor’s design rather than the Government’s design will be used, insert the word "design" before "material" in paragraph (b)(1)(i).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e28" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If it is desirable to specify that necessary transportation incident to correction or replacement will be at the Government’s expense (as might be the case if, for example, the cost of a warranty would otherwise be prohibitive), the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate II.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                If the supplies cannot be obtained from another source, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate III.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e38" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                If a fixed-price incentive contract is contemplated, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate IV.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e43" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                If it is anticipated that recovery of the warranted items will involve considerable Government expense for disassembly and/or reassembly of larger items, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate V.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2728e48" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2702e92" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e53" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer may insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at <xref href="52.246-18.dita#FAR_52_246_18"
                              base="i1047200"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.246-18</xref>, Warranty of Supplies of a Complex Nature, in solicitations and contracts for deliverable complex items when a fixed-price supply or research and development contract is contemplated and the use of a warranty clause has been approved under agency procedures. If the contractor’s design rather than the Government’s design will be used, insert the word "design" before "material" in paragraph (b)(1).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e61" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If it is desirable to specify that necessary transportation incident to correction or replacement will be at the Government’s expense (as might be the case if, for example, the cost of a warranty would otherwise be prohibitive), the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate II.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e66" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                If a fixed-price incentive contract is contemplated, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate III.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e71" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                If it is anticipated that recovery of the warranted item will involve considerable Government expense for disassembly and/or reassembly of larger items, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate IV.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2728e76" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2702e143" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e81" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer may insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at <xref href="52.246-19.dita#FAR_52_246_19"
                              base="i1047233"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.246-19</xref>, Warranty of Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria, in solicitations and contracts when performance specifications or design are of major importance; a fixed-price supply, service, or research and development contract for systems and equipment is contemplated; and the use of a warranty clause has been approved under agency procedures.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e89" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If it is desirable to specify that necessary transportation incident to correction or replacement will be at the Government’s expense (as might be the case if, for example, the cost of a warranty would otherwise be prohibitive), the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate I.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e94" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                If a fixed-price incentive contract is contemplated, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate II.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e99" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                If it is anticipated that recovery of the warranted item will involve considerable Government expense for disassembly and/or reassembly of larger items, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate III.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2728e104" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The contracting officer may insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at <xref href="52.246-20.dita#FAR_52_246_20"
                        base="i1047282"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.246-20</xref>, Warranty of Services, in solicitations and contracts for services when a fixed-price contract for services is contemplated and the use of warranty clause has been approved under agency procedures; unless a clause substantially the same as the clause at <xref href="52.246-19.dita#FAR_52_246_19"
                        base="i1047233"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.246-19</xref>, Warranty of Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria, has been used.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2728e115" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2702e209" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e120" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer may insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at <xref href="52.246-21.dita#FAR_52_246_21"
                              base="i1047296"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.246-21</xref>, Warranty of Construction, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction contract (see <xref href="46.705.dita#FAR_46_705"
                              base="i1071858"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">46.705</xref>(c)) is contemplated and the use of a warranty clause has been approved under agency procedures.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2728e131" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If the Government specifies in the contract the use of any equipment by "brand name and model," the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate I.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
