<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_47_103_1"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">47.103-1</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2718e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2744e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2718e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e15" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Regulations and procedures governing the bill of lading, documentation, payment, and audit of transportation services acquired by the United States Government are prescribed in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">41 CFR part 102</ph>-118, Transportation Payment and Audit.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e23" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                For DoD shipments, corresponding guidance is in DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2744e28" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C. 3726</xref>, all agencies are required to establish a prepayment audit program. For details on the establishment of a prepayment audit, see <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">41 CFR part 102</ph>-118.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2744e39" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The agency designated in paragraph (a)(3) of the clause at <xref href="52.247-67.dita#FAR_52_247_67"
                        base="i1046656"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-67</xref> shall forward original copies of paid freight bills/invoices, bills of lading, passenger coupons, and supporting documents as soon as possible following the end of the month, in one package for postpayment audit to the General Services Administration, Transportation Audit Division (QMCA), Crystal Plaza 4, Room 300, 2200 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202. The specified agency shall include the paid freight bills/invoices, bills of lading, passenger coupons, and supporting documents for first-tier subcontractors under a cost-reimbursement contract. If the inclusion of the paid freight bills/invoices, bills of lading, passenger coupons, and supporting documents for any subcontractor in the shipment is not practicable, the documents may be forwarded to GSA in a separate package.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2744e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Any original transportation bills or other documents requested by GSA shall be forwarded promptly. The specified agency shall ensure that the name of the contracting agency is stamped or written on the face of the bill before sending it to GSA.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2744e52" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            A statement prepared in duplicate by the specified agency shall accompany each shipment of transportation documents. GSA will acknowledge receipt of the shipment by signing and returning the copy of the statement. The statement shall show-</p>
               <ol id="d2718e86" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e58" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The name and address of the specified agency;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e63" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The contract number, including any alpha-numeric prefix identifying the contracting office;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e68" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The name and address of the contracting office;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e73" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The total number of bills submitted with the statement; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2744e78" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                A listing of the respective amounts paid or, in lieu of such listing, an adding machine tape of the amounts paid showing the Contractor’s voucher or check numbers.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
