<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_47_207_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">47.207-1</ph> Qualifications of offerors.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2736e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Operating authorities</i>. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref href="52.247-2.dita#FAR_52_247_2"
                        base="i1045540"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-2</xref>, Permits, Authorities, or Franchises, when regulated transportation is involved. The clause need not be used when a Federal office move is intrastate and the contracting officer determines that it is in the Government’s interest not to apply the requirement for holding or obtaining State authority to operate within the State.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Performance capability for Federal office moving contracts.</p>
               <ol id="d2736e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref href="52.247-3.dita#FAR_52_247_3"
                              base="i1045552"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-3</xref>, Capability to Perform a Contract for the Relocation of a Federal Office, when a Federal office is relocated, to ensure that offerors are capable to perform interstate or intrastate moving contracts involving the relocation of Federal offices.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If a Federal office move is intrastate and the contracting officer determines that it is in the Government’s interest not to apply the requirements for holding or obtaining State authority to operate within the State, and to maintain a facility within the State or commercial zone, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateI.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e39">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Inspection of shipping and receiving facilities</i>. The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref href="52.247-4.dita#FAR_52_247_4"
                        base="i1045566"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-4</xref>, Inspection of Shipping and Receiving Facilities, when it is desired for offerors to inspect the shipping, receiving, or other sites to ensure realistic bids.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Familiarization with conditions</i>. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref href="52.247-5.dita#FAR_52_247_5"
                        base="i1045582"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-5</xref>, Familiarization with Conditions, to ensure that offerors become familiar with conditions under which and where the services will be performed.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2763e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Financial statement</i>. The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref href="52.247-6.dita#FAR_52_247_6"
                        base="i1045591"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-6</xref>, Financial Statement, to ensure that offerors are prepared to furnish financial statements.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
