<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_47_305_16" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">47.305-16</ph> Shipping characteristics.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2797e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Required shipping weights.</i> The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at <xref href="52.247-59.dita#FAR_52_247_59"
                        base="i1046456"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-59</xref>, F.o.b. Origin-Carload and Truckload Shipments, when it is contemplated that they may result in f.o.b. origin contracts with shipments in carloads or truckloads. This will facilitate realistic freight cost evaluations of offers and ensure that contractors produce economical shipments of agreed size.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Guaranteed shipping characteristics.</p>
               <ol id="d2797e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts, excluding those at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, the clause at <xref href="52.247-60.dita#FAR_52_247_60"
                              base="i1046469"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-60</xref>, Guaranteed Shipping Characteristics, when shipping and other characteristics are required to evaluate offers as to transportation costs. When all of the shipping characteristics listed in paragraph (a) of the clause at <xref href="52.247-60.dita#FAR_52_247_60"
                              base="i1046469"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-60</xref> are not required to evaluate offers as to transportation costs, the contracting officer shall delete the characteristics not required from the clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The award document shall show the shipping characteristics used in the evaluation.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Minimum size of shipments.</i> When volume rates may apply, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at <xref href="52.247-61.dita#FAR_52_247_61"
                        base="i1046500"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-61</xref>, F.o.b. Origin-Minimum Size of Shipments.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e52">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Specific quantities unknown.</p>
               <ol id="d2797e89" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e58">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                When total requirements and destinations to which shipments will be made are known, but the specific quantity to be shipped to each destination cannot be predetermined, solicitations shall state that offers are to be submitted on the basis of delivery "f.o.b. origin" and/or "f.o.b. destination" and that offers will be evaluated on both bases.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2824e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at <xref href="52.247-62.dita#FAR_52_247_62"
                              base="i1046509"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-62</xref>, Specific Quantities Unknown, when total requirements and destinations to which shipments will be made are known, but the specific quantity to be shipped to each destination cannot be predetermined. This clause protects the interests of both the Government and the contractor during the course of the performance of the contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
