<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_48_103" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">48.103</ph> Processing value engineering change proposals.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2827e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Instructions to the contractor for preparing a VECP and submitting it to the Government are included in paragraphs (c) and (d) of the value engineering clauses prescribed in <xref href="Subpart_48.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_48_2"
                        base="i1069378"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  48.2</xref>. Upon receiving a VECP, the contracting officer or other designated official shall promptly process and objectively evaluate the VECP in accordance with agency procedures and shall document the contract file with the rationale for accepting or rejecting the VECP.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The contracting officer is responsible for accepting or rejecting the VECP within 45 days from its receipt by the Government. If the Government will need more time to evaluate the VECP, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor promptly in writing, giving the reasons and the anticipated decision date. The contractor may withdraw, in whole or in part, any VECP not accepted by the Government within the period specified in the VECP. Any VECP may be approved, in whole or in part, by a contract modification incorporating the VECP. Until the effective date of the contract modification, the contractor shall perform in accordance with the existing contract. If the Government accepts the VECP, but properly rejects units subsequently delivered or does not receive units on which a savings share was paid, the contractor shall reimburse the Government for the proportionate share of these payments. If the VECP is not accepted, the contracting officer shall provide the contractor with prompt written notification, explaining the reasons for rejection.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e23">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The following Government decisions are unilateral decisions made solely at the discretion of the Government:</p>
               <ol id="d2827e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The decision to accept or reject a VECP.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The determination of collateral costs or collateral savings.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The decision as to which of the sharing rates applies when AlternateII of the clause at <xref href="52.248-1.dita#FAR_52_248_1"
                              base="i1044355"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.248-1</xref>, Value Engineering, is used.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2854e47">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The contracting officer’s determination of the duration of the sharing period and the contractor’s sharing rate.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
