<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_49_605" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">49.605</ph> Request to settle subcontractor settlement proposals.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Contractors requesting authority to settle subcontractor settlement proposals shall furnish applicable information from the list below and any additional information required by the contracting officer:</p>
         <ol id="d2949e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Name of contractor and address of principal office.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Name and location of divisions of the applicant’s plant for which authorization is requested.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e22">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            An explanation of the necessity and justification for the authorization requested.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            A full description of the applicant’s organization for handling terminations, including the names of the officials in charge of processing and settling proposals.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            The number and dollar amount (estimated if necessary) of uncompleted contracts with Government agencies and the percentage applicable to each agency.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e37">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            The number and dollar amount (estimated if necessary) of uncompleted subcontracts under Government contracts and the percentage applicable to each agency.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						            The extent of the applicant’s experience in termination matters, including the handling of proposals of subcontractors.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
						            The approximate amount and general nature of terminations of the applicant currently in process.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e52">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
						            A statement that no other application has been made for any division of the applicant’s plant covered by the application or, if one has been made, a full statement of the facts.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2976e57">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
						            The limit of authorization requested.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
