<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_5_203" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5.203</ph> Publicizing and response
time.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d340e8" class="- topic/p ">Whenever agencies are required to publicize
notice of proposed contract actions under <xref href="5.201.dita#FAR_5_201"
                  base="i1120663"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref>, they must proceed
as follows:</p>
         <ol id="d326e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> An
agency must transmit a notice of proposed contract action to the
GPE (see <xref href="5.201.dita#FAR_5_201"
                        base="i1120663"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref>). All publicizing
and response times are calculated based on the date of publication.
The publication date is the date the notice appears on the GPE.
The notice must be published at least 15 days before issuance of
a solicitation, or a proposed contract action the Government intends
to solicit and negotiate with only one source under the authority
of <xref href="6.302.dita#FAR_6_302"
                        base="i1119460"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">6.302</xref>, except that, for
acquisitions of commercial
products or commercial services, the contracting officer may-</p>
               <ol id="d326e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e27">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Establish
a shorter period for issuance of the solicitation; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e32">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Use the
combined synopsis and solicitation procedure (see <xref href="12.603.dita#FAR_12_603"
                              base="i1112649"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12.603</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e40">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The contracting
officer must establish a solicitation response time that will afford
potential offerors a reasonable opportunity to respond to each proposed
contract action, (including actions where the notice of proposed
contract action and solicitation information is accessible through
the GPE), in an amount estimated to be greater than $25,000, but
not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold; or each contract
action for the acquisition of commercial
products or commercial services in an amount estimated to be
greater than $25,000. The contracting officer should consider the
circumstances of the individual acquisition, such as the complexity,
commerciality, availability, and urgency, when establishing the
solicitation response time.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e45">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Except for
the acquisition of commercial
products or commercial services (see <xref href="#FAR_5_203"
                        base="i1120755"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.203</xref>(b)),
agencies shall allow at least a 30-day response time for receipt
of bids or proposals from the date of issuance of a solicitation,
if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e53">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Agencies
shall allow at least a 30 day response time from the date of publication
of a proper notice of intent to contract for architect-engineer
services or before issuance of an order under a basic ordering agreement
or similar arrangement if the proposed contract action is expected
to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e58">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Agencies
must allow at least a 45-day response time for receipt of bids or
proposals from the date of publication of the notice required in <xref href="5.201.dita#FAR_5_201"
                        base="i1120663"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref> for proposed contract
actions categorized as research and development if the proposed
contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition
threshold.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e66">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> Nothing
in this subpart prohibits officers or employees of agencies from
responding to requests for information.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e71">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph> Contracting
officers may, unless they have evidence to the contrary, presume
the notice was published oneday after transmission to the GPE. This
presumption does not negate the mandatory waiting or response times
specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. Upon learning
that a particular notice has not in fact been published within the
presumed timeframes, contracting officers should consider whether
the date for receipt of offers can be extended or whether circumstances
have become sufficiently compelling to justify proceeding with the
proposed contract action under the authority of <xref href="5.202.dita#FAR_5_202"
                        base="i1120688"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.202</xref>(a)(2).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d340e79">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph> In addition
to other requirements set forth in this section, for acquisitions
covered by the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement
or a Free Trade Agreement (see <xref href="Subpart_25.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_25_4"
                        base="i1092400"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  25.4</xref>), the
period of time between publication of the synopsis notice and receipt
of offers must be no less than 40 days. However, if the acquisition
falls within a general category identified in an annual forecast,
the availability of which is published, the contracting officer
may reduce this time period to as few as 10 days.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
