<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_50_205_1"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">50.205-1</ph> SAFETY Act Considerations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2984e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3010e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAFETY Act applicability</i>. Requiring activities should review requirements to identify potential technologies that prevent, detect, identify, or deter acts of terrorism or limit the harm such acts might cause, and may be appropriate for SAFETY Act protections. In questionable cases, the agency shall consult with DHS. For acquisitions involving such technologies, the requiring activity should ascertain through discussions with DHS whether a block designation or block certification exists for the technology being acquired.</p>
               <ol id="d2984e26" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3010e18" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                If one does exist, the requiring activity should request that the contracting officer notify offerors.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3010e23" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If one does not exist, see <xref href="50.205-2.dita#FAR_50_205_2"
                              base="i1066592"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">50.205-2</xref>, Pre-qualification designation notice.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3010e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Early consideration of the SAFETY Act</i>. Acquisition officials shall consider SAFETY Act issues as early in the acquisition cycle as possible (see <xref href="7.105.dita#FAR_7_105"
                        base="i1118935"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">7.105</xref>(b)(20)(v)). Normally, this would be at the point where the required capabilities or performance characteristics are addressed. This is important because the processing times for issuing determinations on all types of SAFETY Act applications vary depending on many factors, including the influx of applications to DHS and the technical complexity of individual applications.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3010e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Industry outreach</i>. When applicable, acquisition officials should include SAFETY Act considerations in all industry outreach efforts including, but not limited to, requests for information, draft requests for proposal, and industry conferences.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3010e48" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reciprocal waiver of claims</i>. For purposes of 6 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        base="i1091551"
                        href="Subpart_25.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_25_5">25.5</xref>(e), the Government is not a customer from which a contractor must request a reciprocal waiver of claims.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
