<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_209_1"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.209-1</ph> Qualification Requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3121e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="9.206-2.dita#FAR_9_206_2"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">9.206-2</xref>
            </ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Qualification Requirements (Feb 1995)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3121e18" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition</i>. "Qualification requirement," as used in this clause, means a Government requirement for testing or other quality assurance demonstration that must be completed before award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3121e25" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            One or more qualification requirements apply to the supplies or services covered by this contract. For those supplies or services requiring qualification, whether the covered product or service is an end item under this contract or simply a component of an end item, the product, manufacturer, or source must have demonstrated that it meets the standards prescribed for qualification before award of this contract. The product, manufacturer, or source must be qualified at the time of award whether or not the name of the product, manufacturer, or source is actually included on a qualified products list, qualified manufacturers list, or qualified bidders list. Offerors should contact the agency activity designated below to obtain all requirements that they or their products or services, or their subcontractors or their products or services, must satisfy to become qualified and to arrange for an opportunity to demonstrate their abilities to meet the standards specified for qualification.</p>
               <p id="d3121e29" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">(Name) <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                        xtrc="52.209-1_d3111e45"
                        class="- topic/cite ">___________________________________________</cite>
               </p>
               <p id="d3121e33" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">(Address) <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                        xtrc="52.209-1_d3111e51"
                        class="- topic/cite ">_________________________________________</cite>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3121e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            If an offeror, manufacturer, source, product or service covered by a qualification requirement has already met the standards specified, the relevant information noted below should be provided.</p>
               <p id="d3121e42" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Offeror’s Name _____________________________________</p>
               <p id="d3121e44" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Manufacturer’s Name______ __________________________</p>
               <p id="d3121e46" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Source’s Name _____________________________________</p>
               <p id="d3121e48" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Item Name ________________________________________</p>
               <p id="d3121e50" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Service Identification ________________________________</p>
               <p id="d3121e52" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Test Number _______________________________________ (to the extent known)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3121e55" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Even though a product or service subject to a qualification requirement is not itself an end item under this contract, the product, manufacturer, or source must nevertheless be qualified at the time of award of this contract. This is necessary whether the Contractor or a subcontractor will ultimately provide the product or service in question. If, after award, the Contracting Officer discovers that an applicable qualification requirement was not in fact met at the time of award, the Contracting Officer may either terminate this contract for default or allow performance to continue if adequate consideration is offered and the action is determined to be otherwise in the Government’s best interests.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3121e60" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            If an offeror, manufacturer, source, product or service has met the qualification requirement but is not yet on a qualified products list, qualified manufacturers list, or qualified bidders list, the offeror must submit evidence of qualification prior to award of this contract. Unless determined to be in the Government’s interest, award of this contract shall not be delayed to permit an offeror to submit evidence of qualification.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3121e65" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            Any change in location or ownership of the plant where a previously qualified product or service was manufactured or performed requires reevaluation of the qualification. Similarly, any change in location or ownership of a previously qualified manufacturer or source requires reevaluation of the qualification. The reevaluation must be accomplished before the date of award.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
