<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_232_27" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.232-27</ph> Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="32.908.dita#FAR_32_908"
                     base="i1081348"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.908</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3525e15">Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Jan 2017)</ph>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Notwithstanding any other payment terms in this contract, the Government will make invoice payments under the terms and conditions specified in this clause. The Government considers payment as being made on the day a check is dated or the date of an electronic funds transfer. Definitions of pertinent terms are set forth in sections <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                  base="i1125359"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>, <xref href="32.001.dita#FAR_32_001"
                  base="i1083391"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">32.001</xref>, and <xref href="32.902.dita#FAR_32_902"
                  base="i1081121"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">32.902</xref> of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. All days referred to in this clause are calendar days, unless otherwise specified. (However, see paragraph (a)(3) concerning payments due on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.)</p>
         <ol id="d3481e37" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Invoice payments- </p>
               <ol id="d3481e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Types of invoice payments</i>. For purposes of this clause, there are several types of invoice payments that may occur under this contract, as follows:</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e60" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e46">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Progress payments, if provided for elsewhere in this contract, based on Contracting Officer approval of the estimated amount and value of work or services performed, including payments for reaching milestones in any project.</p>
                           <ol id="d3481e70" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e52">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The due date for making such payments is 14 days after the designated billing office receives a proper payment request. If the designated billing office fails to annotate the payment request with the actual date of receipt at the time of receipt, the payment due date is the 14 thday after the date of the Contractor’s payment request, provided the designated billing office receives a proper payment request and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e57">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The due date for payment of any amounts retained by the Contracting Officer in accordance with the clause at <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                                          base="i1049425"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref>, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, is as specified in the contract or, if not specified, 30 days after approval by the Contracting Officer for release to the Contractor.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e65">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Final payments based on completion and acceptance of all work and presentation of release of all claims against the Government arising by virtue of the contract, and payments for partial deliveries that have been accepted by the Government (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> each separate building, public work, or other division of the contract for which the price is stated separately in the contract).</p>
                           <ol id="d3481e106" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e74">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The due date for making such payments is the later of the following two events:</p>
                                 <ol id="d3481e116" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e80">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
														                            The 30 thday after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from the Contractor.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e85">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
														                            The 30 thday after Government acceptance of the work or services completed by the Contractor. For a final invoice when the payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> release of claims), acceptance is deemed to occur on the effective date of the contract settlement.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e93">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the date of actual receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment due date is the 30 thday after the date of the Contractor’s invoice, provided the designated billing office receives a proper invoice and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e98">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor's invoice</i>. The Contractor shall prepare and submit invoices to the designated billing office specified in the contract. A proper invoice must include the items listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(xi) of this clause. If the invoice does not comply with these requirements, the designated billing office must return it within 7 days after receipt, with the reasons why it is not a proper invoice. When computing any interest penalty owed the Contractor, the Government will take into account if the Government notifies the Contractor of an improper invoice in an untimely manner.</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e165" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e106">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Name and address of the Contractor.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e111">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Invoice date and invoice number. (The Contractor should date invoices as close as possible to the date of mailing or transmission.)</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e116">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Contract number or other authorization for work or services performed (including order number and line item number).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e121">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    Description of work or services performed.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e126">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
										                    Delivery and payment terms (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> discount for prompt payment terms).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e134">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>
										                    Name and address of Contractor official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the contract or in a proper notice of assignment).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e139">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>
										                    Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and mailing address of person to notify in the event of a defective invoice.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e144">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>
										                    For payments described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this clause, substantiation of the amounts requested and certification in accordance with the requirements of the clause at <xref href="52.232-5.dita#FAR_52_232_5"
                                    base="i1049425"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-5</xref>, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e152">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>
										                    Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e157">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(x)</ph>
										                    Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.</p>
                           <ol id="d3481e263" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e163">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e168">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>
                                    <xref href="52.232-38.dita#FAR_52_232_38"
                                          base="i1050821"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">52.232-38</xref>, Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer Information with Offer), contract clause (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>
                                    <xref href="52.232-33.dita#FAR_52_232_33"
                                          base="i1050674"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">52.232-33</xref>, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award Management, or <xref href="52.232-34.dita#FAR_52_232_34"
                                          base="i1050705"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">52.232-34</xref>, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other Than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e186">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>
												                        EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e191">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xi)</ph>
										                    Any other information or documentation required by the contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e196">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Interest penalty</i>. The designated payment office will pay an interest penalty automatically, without request from the Contractor, if payment is not made by the due date and the conditions listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(iii) of this clause are met, if applicable. However, when the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the designated payment office may make payment on the following working day without incurring a late payment interest penalty.</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e332" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e204">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The designated billing office received a proper invoice.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e209">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The Government processed a receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment and there was no disagreement over quantity, quality, Contractor compliance with any contract term or condition, or requested progress payment amount.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e214">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    In the case of a final invoice for any balance of funds due the Contractor for work or services performed, the amount was not subject to further contract settlement actions between the Government and the Contractor.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e219">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computing penalty amount</i>. The Government will compute the interest penalty in accordance with the Office of Management and Budget prompt payment regulations at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">5 CFR Part 1315</ph>.</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e374" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e230">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    For the sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due the Contractor for payments described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this clause, Government acceptance or approval is deemed to occur constructively on the 7 thday after the Contractor has completed the work or services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. If actual acceptance or approval occurs within the constructive acceptance or approval period, the Government will base the determination of an interest penalty on the actual date of acceptance or approval. Constructive acceptance or constructive approval requirements do not apply if there is a disagreement over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with a contract provision. These requirements also do not compel Government officials to accept work or services, approve Contractor estimates, perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior to fulfilling their responsibilities.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e235">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR1315.10(c) do not require the Government to pay interest penalties if payment delays are due to disagreement between the Government and the Contractor over the payment amount or other issues involving contract compliance, or on amounts temporarily withheld or retained in accordance with the terms of the contract. The Government and the Contractor shall resolve claims involving disputes, and any interest that may be payable in accordance with the clause at FAR <xref href="52.233-1.dita#FAR_52_233_1"
                                    base="i1048610"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.233-1</xref>, Disputes.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e243">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Discounts for prompt payment</i>. The designated payment office will pay an interest penalty automatically, without request from the Contractor, if the Government takes a discount for prompt payment improperly. The Government will calculate the interest penalty in accordance with the prompt payment regulations at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">5 CFR Part 1315</ph>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e253">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
								                Additional interest penalty. </p>
                     <ol id="d3481e420" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e259">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The designated payment office will pay a penalty amount, calculated in accordance with the prompt payment regulations at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">5 CFR Part 1315</ph> in addition to the interest penalty amount only if-</p>
                           <ol id="d3481e430" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e268">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The Government owes an interest penalty of $1 or more;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e273">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The designated payment office does not pay the interest penalty within 10 days after the date the invoice amount is paid; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e278">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>
												                        The Contractor makes a written demand to the designated payment office for additional penalty payment, in accordance with paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this clause, postmarked not later than 40 days after the date the invoice amount is paid.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e283">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                           </p>
                           <ol id="d3481e469" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e288">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The Contractor shall support written demands for additional penalty payments with the following data. The Government will not request any additional data. The Contractor shall-</p>
                                 <ol id="d3481e488" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e294">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
														                            Specifically assert that late payment interest is due under a specific invoice, and request payment of all overdue late payment interest penalty and such additional penalty as may be required;</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e299">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
														                            Attach a copy of the invoice on which the unpaid late payment interest was due; and</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e304">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
														                            State that payment of the principal has been received, including the date of receipt.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e309">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        If there is no postmark or the postmark is illegible-</p>
                                 <ol id="d3481e530" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e315">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
														                            The designated payment office that receives the demand will annotate it with the date of receipt provided the demand is received on or before the 40 thday after payment was made; or</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e320">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
														                            If the designated payment office fails to make the required annotation, the Government will determine the demand’s validity based on the date the Contractor has placed on the demand, provided such date is no later than the 40 thday after payment was made.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e325">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract financing payments</i>. If this contract provides for contract financing, the Government will make contract financing payments in accordance with the applicable contract financing clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e332">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontract clause requirements</i>. The Contractor shall include in each subcontract for property or services (including a material supplier) for the purpose of performing this contract the following:</p>
               <ol id="d3481e584" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e340">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prompt payment for subcontractors</i>. A payment clause that obligates the Contractor to pay the subcontractor for satisfactory performance under its subcontract not later than 7 days from receipt of payment out of such amounts as are paid to the Contractor under this contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e347">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Interest for subcontractors</i>. An interest penalty clause that obligates the Contractor to pay to the subcontractor an interest penalty for each payment not made in accordance with the payment clause-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e609" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e355">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    For the period beginning on the day after the required payment date and ending on the date on which payment of the amount due is made; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e360">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Computed at the rate of interest established by the Secretary of the Treasury, and published in the <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal Register</i>, for interest payments under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section7109&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                    scope="external"
                                    format="html">41 U.S.C. 7109</xref> in effect at the time the Contractor accrues the obligation to pay an interest penalty.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e371">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor clause flowdown</i>. A clause requiring each subcontractor to-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e648" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e379">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Include a payment clause and an interest penalty clause conforming to the standards set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this clause in each of its subcontracts; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e384">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Require each of its subcontractors to include such clauses in their subcontracts with each lower-tier subcontractor or supplier.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e389">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontract clause interpretation</i>. The clauses required by paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to impair the right of the Contractor or a subcontractor at any tier to negotiate, and to include in their subcontract, provisions that-</p>
               <ol id="d3481e683" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e397">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Retainage permitted</i>. Permit the Contractor or a subcontractor to retain (without cause) a specified percentage of each progress payment otherwise due to a subcontractor for satisfactory performance under the subcontract without incurring any obligation to pay a late payment interest penalty, in accordance with terms and conditions agreed to by the parties to the subcontract, giving such recognition as the parties deem appropriate to the ability of a subcontractor to furnish a performance bond and a payment bond;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e404">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Withholding permitted</i>. Permit the Contractor or subcontractor to make a determination that part or all of the subcontractor’s request for payment may be withheld in accordance with the subcontract agreement; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e411">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Withholding requirements</i>. Permit such withholding without incurring any obligation to pay a late payment penalty if-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e720" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e419">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    A notice conforming to the standards of paragraph (g) of this clause previously has been furnished to the subcontractor; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e424">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The Contractor furnishes to the Contracting Officer a copy of any notice issued by a Contractor pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e429">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor withholding procedures</i>. If a Contractor, after making a request for payment to the Government but before making a payment to a subcontractor for the subcontractor’s performance covered by the payment request, discovers that all or a portion of the payment otherwise due such subcontractor is subject to withholding from the subcontractor in accordance with the subcontract agreement, then the Contractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d3481e755" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e437">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor notice</i>. Furnish to the subcontractor a notice conforming to the standards of paragraph (g) of this clause as soon as practicable upon ascertaining the cause giving rise to a withholding, but prior to the due date for subcontractor payment;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e444">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer notice</i>. Furnish to the Contracting Officer, as soon as practicable, a copy of the notice furnished to the subcontractor pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this clause;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e451">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor progress payment reduction</i>. Reduce the subcontractor’s progress payment by an amount not to exceed the amount specified in the notice of withholding furnished under paragraph (e)(1) of this clause;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e458">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subsequent subcontractor payment</i>. Pay the subcontractor as soon as practicable after the correction of the identified subcontract performance deficiency, and-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e804" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e466">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Make such payment within-</p>
                           <ol id="d3481e814" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e472">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        Sevendays after correction of the identified subcontract performance deficiency (unless the funds therefor must be recovered from the Government because of a reduction under paragraph (e)(5)(i)) of this clause; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e477">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        Sevendays after the Contractor recovers such funds from the Government; or</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e482">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Incur an obligation to pay a late payment interest penalty computed at the rate of interest established by the Secretary of the Treasury, and published in the <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal Register</i>, for interest payments under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section7109&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                    scope="external"
                                    format="html">41 U.S.C. 7109</xref> in effect at the time the Contractor accrues the obligation to pay an interest penalty;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e493">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notice to Contracting Officer</i>. Notify the Contracting Officer upon-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e864" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e501">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Reduction of the amount of any subsequent certified application for payment; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e506">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Payment to the subcontractor of any withheld amounts of a progress payment, specifying-</p>
                           <ol id="d3481e883" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e512">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The amounts withheld under paragraph (e)(1) of this clause; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e517">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The dates that such withholding began and ended; and</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e522">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Interest to Government</i>. Be obligated to pay to the Government an amount equal to interest on the withheld payments (computed in the manner provided in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3903(c)(1)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">31 U.S.C. 3903(c)(1)</xref>), from the 8 thday after receipt of the withheld amounts from the Government until-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e922" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e533">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The day the identified subcontractor performance deficiency is corrected; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e538">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The date that any subsequent payment is reduced under paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e543">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            Third-party deficiency reports- </p>
               <ol id="d3481e954" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e549">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Withholding from subcontractor</i>. If a Contractor, after making payment to a first-tier subcontractor, receives from a supplier or subcontractor of the first-tier subcontractor (hereafter referred to as a "second-tier subcontractor") a written notice in accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section3133&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">40 U.S.C. 3133</xref>, asserting a deficiency in such first-tier subcontractor’s performance under the contract for which the Contractor may be ultimately liable, and the Contractor determines that all or a portion of future payments otherwise due such first-tier subcontractor is subject to withholding in accordance with the subcontract agreement, the Contractor may, without incurring an obligation to pay an interest penalty under paragraph (e)(6) of this clause-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e970" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e560">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Furnish to the first-tier subcontractor a notice conforming to the standards of paragraph (g) of this clause as soon as practicable upon making such determination; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e565">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Withhold from the first-tier subcontractor’s next available progress payment or payments an amount not to exceed the amount specified in the notice of withholding furnished under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e570">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subsequent payment or interest charge</i>. As soon as practicable, but not later than 7 days after receipt of satisfactory written notification that the identified subcontract performance deficiency has been corrected, the Contractor shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e1003" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e578">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Pay the amount withheld under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this clause to such first-tier subcontractor; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e583">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Incur an obligation to pay a late payment interest penalty to such first-tier subcontractor computed at the rate of interest established by the Secretary of the Treasury, and published in the <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal Register</i>, for interest payments under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section7109&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                    scope="external"
                                    format="html">41 U.S.C. 7109</xref> in effect at the time the Contractor accrues the obligation to pay an interest penalty.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e594">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Written notice of subcontractor withholding</i>. The Contractor shall issue a written notice of any withholding to a subcontractor (with a copy furnished to the Contracting Officer), specifying-</p>
               <ol id="d3481e1045" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e602">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The amount to be withheld;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e607">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The specific causes for the withholding under the terms of the subcontract; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e612">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The remedial actions to be taken by the subcontractor in order to receive payment of the amounts withheld.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e617">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor payment entitlement</i>. The Contractor may not request payment from the Government of any amount withheld or retained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause until such time as the Contractor has determined and certified to the Contracting Officer that the subcontractor is entitled to the payment of such amount.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e624">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prime-subcontractor disputes</i>. A dispute between the Contractor and subcontractor relating to the amount or entitlement of a subcontractor to a payment or a late payment interest penalty under a clause included in the subcontract pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause does not constitute a dispute to which the Government is a party. The Government may not be interpleaded in any judicial or administrative proceeding involving such a dispute.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e631">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Preservation of prime-subcontractor rights</i>. Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this clause, this clause shall not limit or impair any contractual, administrative, or judicial remedies otherwise available to the Contractor or a subcontractor in the event of a dispute involving late payment or nonpayment by the Contractor or deficient subcontract performance or nonperformance by a subcontractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e638">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(k)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Non-recourse for prime contractor interest penalty</i>. The Contractor’s obligation to pay an interest penalty to a subcontractor pursuant to the clauses included in a subcontract under paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to be an obligation of the Government for such interest penalty. A cost-reimbursement claim may not include any amount for reimbursement of such interest penalty.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e646">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(l)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Overpayments</i>. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d3481e1135" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e654">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-</p>
                     <ol id="d3481e1145" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e660">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Circumstances of the overpayment (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e668">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Affected contract number and delivery order number if applicable;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e673">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Affected line item or subline item, if applicable; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e678">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    Contractor point of contact.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3525e683">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
