<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_245_2"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.245-2</ph> Government Property Installation Operation Services.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3642e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="45.107.dita#FAR_45_107"
                     base="i1073200"
                     class="- topic/xref ">45.107</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p " id="d3642e15">Government Property Installation Operation Services <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Apr 2012)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3600e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3642e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            This Government Property listed in paragraph (e) of this clause is furnished to the Contractor in an "as-is, where is" condition. The Government makes no warranty regarding the suitability for use of the Government property specified in this contract. The Contractor shall be afforded the opportunity to inspect the Government property as specified in the solicitation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3642e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The Government bears no responsibility for repair or replacement of any lost Government property. If any or all of the Government property is lost or becomes no longer usable, the Contractor shall be responsible for replacement of the property at Contractor expense. The Contractor shall have title to all replacement property and shall continue to be responsible for contract performance.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3642e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Unless the Contracting Officer determines otherwise, the Government abandons all rights and title to unserviceable and scrap property resulting from contract performance. Upon notification to the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall remove such property from the Government premises and dispose of it at Contractor expense.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3642e36" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Except as provided in this clause, Government property furnished under this contract shall be governed by the Government Property clause of this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3642e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Government property provided under this clause:</p>
               <p id="d3642e45" class="- topic/p ">
                  <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                        xtrc="52.245-2_d3623e72"
                        class="- topic/cite ">__________________________________________ __________________________________________ __________________________________________</cite>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
