<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_236_13" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.236-13</ph> Accident Prevention.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="36.513.dita#FAR_36_513"
                     base="i1078709"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">36.513</xref>
            </ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3563e14">Accident Prevention <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Nov 1991)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3519e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The Contractor shall provide and maintain work environments and procedures which will-</p>
               <ol id="d3519e35" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Safeguard the public and Government personnel, property, materials, supplies, and equipment exposed to Contractor operations and activities;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Avoid interruptions of Government operations and delays in project completion dates; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Control costs in the performance of this contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e41">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            For these purposes on contracts for construction or dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements, the Contractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d3519e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e47">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Provide appropriate safety barricades, signs, and signal lights;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e52">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Comply with the standards issued by the Secretary of Labor at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">
                           <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR Part 1926</ph>
                        </ph> and <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">
                           <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR Part 1910</ph>
                        </ph>; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e65">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Ensure that any additional measures the Contracting Officer determines to be reasonably necessary for the purposes are taken.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e70">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            If this contract is for construction or dismantling, demolition or removal of improvements with any Department of Defense agency or component, the Contractor shall comply with all pertinent provisions of the latest version of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Safety and Health Requirements Manual, EM 385-1-1, in effect on the date of the solicitation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e75">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Whenever the Contracting Officer becomes aware of any noncompliance with these requirements or any condition which poses a serious or imminent danger to the health or safety of the public or Government personnel, the Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor orally, with written confirmation, and request immediate initiation of corrective action. This notice, when delivered to the Contractor or the Contractor’s representative at the work site, shall be deemed sufficient notice of the noncompliance and that corrective action is required. After receiving the notice, the Contractor shall immediately take corrective action. If the Contractor fails or refuses to promptly take corrective action, the Contracting Officer may issue an order stopping all or part of the work until satisfactory corrective action has been taken. The Contractor shall not be entitled to any equitable adjustment of the contract price or extension of the performance schedule on any stop work order issued under this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3563e80">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            The Contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (e), with appropriate changes in the designation of the parties, in subcontracts.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I </i>( Nov 1991). If the contract will involve (a) work of a long duration or hazardous nature, or (b) performance on a Government facility that on the advice of technical representatives involves hazardous materials or operations that might endanger the safety of the public and/or Government personnel or property, add the following paragraph (f) to the basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(f) Before commencing the work, the Contractor shall-</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) Submit a written proposed plan for implementing this clause. The plan shall include an analysis of the significant hazards to life, limb, and property inherent in contract work performance and a plan for controlling these hazards; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) Meet with representatives of the Contracting Officer to discuss and develop a mutual understanding relative to administration of the overall safety program.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
