<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_234_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="VFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.234-4</ph> Earned Value Management System.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="34.203.dita#FAR_34_203"
                     base="i1079929"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">34.203</xref>(c)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Earned Value Management System (Nov 2016)</p>
         <ol id="d3504e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The Contractor shall use an earned value management system (EVMS) that has been determined by the Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA) to be compliant with the guidelines in Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748) (current version at the time of award) to manage this contract. If the Contractor’s current EVMS has not been determined compliant at the time of award, see paragraph (b) of this clause. The Contractor shall submit reports in accordance with the requirements of this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e24">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> If, at the time of award, the Contractor’s EVM System has not been determined by the CFA as complying with EVMS guidelines or the Contractor does not have an existing cost/schedule control system that is compliant with the guidelines in EIA- 748 (current version at time of award), the Contractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d3504e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Apply the current system to the contract; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e35">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Take necessary actions to meet the milestones in the Contractor’s EVMS plan approved by the Contracting Officer.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e40">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). If a pre-award IBR has not been conducted, a post award IBR shall be conducted as early as practicable after contract award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e45">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The Contracting Officer may require an IBR at-</p>
               <ol id="d3504e83" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e51">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Exercise of significant options; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e56">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Incorporation of major modifications.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e61">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Unless a waiver is granted by the CFA, Contractor proposed EVMS changes require approval of the CFA prior to implementation. The CFA will advise the Contractor of the acceptability of such changes within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of proposed changes from the Contractor. If the advance approval requirements are waived by the CFA, the Contractor shall disclose EVMS changes to the CFA at least 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of implementation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e66">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> The Contractor shall provide access to all pertinent records and data requested by the Contracting Officer or a an authorized representative as necessary to permit Government surveillance to ensure that the EVMS conforms, and continues to conform, with the performance criteria referenced in paragraph (a) of this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e71">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph> The Contractor shall require the subcontractors specified below to comply with the requirements of this clause: [Insert list of applicable subcontractors.]</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e75">
                  <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                        xtrf="VFI"
                        xtrc="52.234-4_pph_5dp_21c"
                        class="- topic/cite ">________________________________________________</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e77o">________________________________________________</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e76s09d">________________________________________________</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3548e98eww">________________________________________________</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
