<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_204_9" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.204-9</ph> Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="4.1303.dita#FAR_4_1303"
                     base="i1121839"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">4.1303</xref>
            </ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Jan <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "/>2011)</p>
         <ol id="d3054e27" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e25">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government:</p>
               <ol id="d3054e46" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                When no longer needed for contract performance.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Upon completion of the Contractor employee’s employment.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Upon contract completion or termination.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e46">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3084e51">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor’s employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
