<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_223_22"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.223-22</ph> Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals-Representation.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3392e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="23.804.dita#FAR_23_804"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">23.804</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p " id="d3392e15">Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals-Representation <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Dec 2016)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3354e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3392e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            This representation shall be completed if the Offeror received $7.5 million or more in Federal contract awards in the prior Federal fiscal year. The representation is optional if the Offeror received less than $7.5 million in Federal contract awards in the prior Federal fiscal year.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3392e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Representation. [Offeror is to check applicable blocks in paragraphs (1) and (2).]</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3354e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3392e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The Offeror (itself or through its immediate owner or highest-level owner) <cite outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.223-22_d95e35"
                              class="- topic/cite ">□</cite> does, <cite outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.223-22_d95e38"
                              class="- topic/cite ">□</cite> does not publicly disclose greenhouse gas emissions, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, make available on a publicly accessible website the results of a greenhouse gas inventory, performed in accordance with an accounting standard with publicly available and consistently applied criteria, such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3392e47" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The Offeror (itself or through its immediate owner or highest-level owner) <cite outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.223-22_d95e49"
                              class="- topic/cite ">□</cite> does, <cite outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.223-22_d95e52"
                              class="- topic/cite ">□</cite> does not publicly disclose a quantitative greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, make available on a publicly available website a target to reduce absolute emissions or emissions intensity by a specific quantity or percentage.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3392e61" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                A publicly accessible website includes the Offeror’s own website or a recognized, third-party greenhouse gas emissions reporting program.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3392e66" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            If the Offeror checked "does" in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this provision, respectively, the Offeror shall provide the publicly accessible website(s) where greenhouse gas emissions and/or reduction goals are reported:________________.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
