<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_204_17" xtrc="VFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.204-17</ph>  Ownership or Control of Offeror.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref href="4.1804.dita#FAR_4_1804"
                     base="FAR_4_1804"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">4.1804</xref>(b)</ph>, use the following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Ownership or Control of Offeror (Aug 2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3062e25">
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						             Definitions. As used in this provision–</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e23">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-17" xtrc="d3089e37">Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code</i> means–<ol id="d3062e44">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e29">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            An identifier assigned to entities located in the United States or its outlying areas by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch to identify a commercial or government entity by unique location; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e34">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            An identifier assigned by a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency (NSPA) to entities located outside the United States and its outlying areas that the DLA Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch records and maintains in the CAGE master file. This type of code is known as a NATO CAGE (NCAGE) code.</p>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e38">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-17" xtrc="d3089e62">Highest-level owner</i> means the entity that owns or controls an immediate owner of the offeror, or that owns or controls one or more entities that control an immediate owner of the offeror. No entity owns or exercises control of the highest level owner.</p>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e42">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-17" xtrc="d3089e68">Immediate owner</i> means an entity, other than the offeror, that has direct control of the offeror. Indicators of control include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: ownership or interlocking management, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and equipment, and the common use of employees.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						             The Offeror represents that it <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-17_d73e51" xtrf="VFI">□</cite> has or <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-17_d73e54" xtrf="VFI">□</cite> does not have an immediate owner. If the Offeror has more than one immediate owner (such as a joint venture), then the Offeror shall respond to paragraph (c) and if applicable, paragraph (d) of this provision for each participant in the joint venture.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e58">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						             If the Offeror indicates "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, enter the following information:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e62">Immediate owner CAGE code: <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.204-17_d1e100" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e64">Immediate owner legal name: <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.204-17_d1e105" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e66">(Do not use a "doing business as" name)</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e68">Is the immediate owner owned or controlled by another entity?: <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-17_d73e70" xtrf="VFI">□</cite> Yes or <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-17_d73e73" xtrf="VFI">□</cite> No.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e77">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						             If the Offeror indicates "yes" in paragraph (c) of this provision, indicating that the immediate owner is owned or controlled by another entity, then enter the following information:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e81">Highest-level owner CAGE code: <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.204-17_d1e131" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e83">Highest-level owner legal name: <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.204-17_d1e136" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3092e85">(Do not use a "doing business as" name)</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
