<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_225_11" xtrc="GFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.225-11</ph> Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1090904"
                     href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1102</xref>(c)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3409e15"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023"> Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements (<?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2023-019?>Nov 2023<?FM MARKER [Why] 8.  Amend section 52.225-11 by—   a.  Revising the date of the clause; and   ?>)</p>
         <ol id="d3370e25">
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i>Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e25">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e40">Caribbean Basin country
construction material</i> means a construction material that—<ol id="d3370e47">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e31">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            Is
wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Caribbean Basin
country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e36">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in a Caribbean Basin country into a new and different construction
material distinct from the materials from which it was transformed. </p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e40">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e67">Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS)
item</i>—<ol id="d3370e79">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e46">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            Means any item of supply (including
construction material) that is–</p>
                        <ol id="d3370e89">
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e52">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                  A commercial
product (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of “commercial
product” at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref base="i1125359"
                                       href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                                       outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref>);</p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e60">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                  Sold in
substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e65">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                 
                                  Offered
to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier,
without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the
commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e70">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            Does not
include bulk cargo, as defined in <xref format="html"
                                 href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                 scope="external">46
                              U.S.C.40102(4)</xref>, such as agricultural
products and petroleum products.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e77">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e130">Component</i> means
an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction
material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e81">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e136">Construction material</i> means
an article, material, or supply brought to the construction site
by the Contractor or subcontractor for incorporation into the building
or work. The term also includes an item brought to the site preassembled
from articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency life safety
systems, such as emergency lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation
systems, that are discrete systems incorporated into a public building
or work and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated
as a single and distinct construction material regardless of when
or how the individual parts or components of those systems are delivered
to the construction site. Materials purchased directly by the Government
are supplies, not construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e85">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e143">Cost
of components</i> means—<ol id="d3370e211">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e91">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            For components purchased by the
Contractor, the acquisition cost, including transportation costs
to the place of incorporation into the construction material (whether
or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any applicable duty
(whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e96">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            For components
manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture
of the component, including transportation costs as described in
paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs,
but excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs
associated with the manufacture of the construction material.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e102">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d1e173">Critical component</i> means a component that is mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States and deemed critical to the U.S. supply chain. The list of critical components is at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e112">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d1e172">Critical item</i> means a domestic construction material or domestic end product that is deemed critical to U.S. supply chain resiliency. The list of critical items is at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e100">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e170">Designated country</i> means any of the
following countries:</p>
               <ol id="d3370e235">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e106">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country (Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, <ph rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2023-019?>New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway,<?FM MARKER [Why] b.  In paragraph (a), in the definition “Designated country” by removing from paragraph (1) “New Zealand, Norway,” and adding “New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway,” in its place. ?></ph> Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United Kingdom);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e111">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Peru, or Singapore);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e116">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                         A least
developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati,
Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique,
Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste,
Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia); or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e121">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                         A Caribbean
Basin country (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana,
Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or
Trinidad and Tobago).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e125">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d1e221">Designated country construction material</i> means a construction material that is a WTO GPA country construction material, an FTA country construction material, a least developed country construction material, or a Caribbean Basin country construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e127">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e221">Domestic
construction material</i> means— <ol id="d3370e281">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e133">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            For construction
material that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or
steel or a combination of both-</p>
                        <ol>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e139">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 
                                  An unmanufactured construction
material mined or produced in the United States; or</p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e144">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 
                                  A construction
material manufactured in the United States, if—</p>
                              <ol>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e173">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       
                                       The cost of its components
mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 60
percent of the cost of all its components, except that the percentage
will be 65 percent for items delivered in calendar years 2024 through
2028 and 75 percent for items delivered starting in calendar year
2029.</p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e155">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                       
                                        The construction
material is a COTS item; or</p>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e160">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            For construction
material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
or a combination of both, a construction material manufactured in
the United States if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes
less than 5 percent of the cost of all components used in such construction
material. The cost of foreign iron and steel includes but is not limited
to the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar,
billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized
in the manufacture of the construction material and a good faith
estimate of the cost of all foreign iron or steel components excluding
COTS fasteners. Iron or steel components of unknown origin are treated
as foreign. If the construction material contains multiple components,
the cost of all the materials used in such construction material
is calculated in accordance with the definition of "cost of components".</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e164">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d13e176">Fastener</i> means a hardware device that
mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples
of fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e169">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d13e185">Foreign construction material</i> means
a construction material other than a domestic construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e173">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d13e189">Foreign iron and steel</i> means iron or
steel products not produced in the United States. Produced in the
United States means that all manufacturing processes of the iron
or steel must take place in the United States, from the initial
melting stage through the application of coatings, except metallurgical
processes involving refinement of steel additives. The origin of the
elements of the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination
of whether it is domestic or foreign.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e177">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e273">Free
Trade Agreement country construction material</i> means a construction
material that-<ol id="d3370e329">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e183">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            Is wholly the growth, product,
or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e188">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in a FTA country into a new and different construction material
distinct from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e192">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e300">Least developed country construction material</i> means
a construction material that-<ol id="d3370e353">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e198">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country;
or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e203">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in a least developed country into a new and different construction
material distinct from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e207">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d1e358">Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both</i> means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds 50 percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the product and a good faith estimate of the cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e211">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d1e364">Steel</i> means an alloy that includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and may include other elements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e215">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e327">United States</i> means
the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e219">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-11" xtrc="d3405e333">WTO GPA country construction material</i> means
a construction material that-<ol id="d3370e380">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e225">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           
                            Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e230">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           
                            In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in a WTO GPA country into a new and different construction material
distinct from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e235">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                   Construction
materials.</p>
               <ol id="d3370e413">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e241">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                         This clause implements <xref format="html"
                              href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              scope="external">41 U.S.C.chapter 83</xref>,
Buy American, by providing a preference for domestic construction
material. In accordance with <xref format="html"
                              href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              scope="external">41 U.S.C.1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
construction material that is a COTS item, except that for construction
material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only
to the iron and steel content of the construction material, excluding
COTS fasteners. (See FAR <xref base="i1112949"
                              href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">12.505</xref>(a)(2)).
In addition, the Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO
GPA and Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) apply to this acquisition.
Therefore, the Buy American restrictions are waived for designated
country construction materials.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e255">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                         The Contractor
shall use only domestic or designated country construction material
in performing this contract, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)
and (b)(4) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e260">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                         The requirement
in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause does not apply to information
technology that is a commercial product or to the construction materials
or components listed by the Government as follows:</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e264">
                        <cite outputclass="MultiLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d3394e371" xtrf="GFI">[<i>Contracting Officer to list
applicable excepted materials or indicate "none"</i>]</cite>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e271">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                         The Contracting
Officer may add other foreign construction material to the list
in paragraph (b)(3) of this clause if the Government determines
that-</p>
                     <ol id="d3370e475">
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e302">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              The cost of domestic construction
material would be unreasonable.</p>
                           <ol id="ol_clw_mgj_bvb">
                              <li props="Runin">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e311">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                    <i>For domestic construction
material that is not a critical item or does not contain critical
components</i>.</p>
                                 <ol id="ol_udv_tgj_bvb">
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e320">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                          
                                          The cost of a particular
domestic construction material subject to the restrictions of the
Buy American statute is unreasonable when the cost of such material
exceeds the cost of foreign material by more than 20 percent;</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e326">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                          
                                          For construction material
that is not a COTS item and does not consist wholly or predominantly
of iron or steel or a combination of both, if the cost of a particular
domestic construction material is determined to be unreasonable
or there is no domestic offer received, and the low offer is for
foreign construction material that does not exceed 55 percent domestic content,
the Contracting Officer will treat the lowest offer of foreign construction
material that is manufactured in the United States and exceeds 55
percent domestic content as a domestic offer and determine whether
the cost of that offer is unreasonable by applying the evaluation
factor listed in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A)<i>(1)</i> of this clause.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e335">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                                          
                                          The procedures in paragraph
(b)(4)(i)(A)<i>(2)</i> of this clause will no longer apply as of
January 1, 2030.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li props="Runin">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e344">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                    <i>For domestic construction
material that is a critical item or contains critical components</i>.</p>
                                 <ol id="ol_txb_jhj_bvb">
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e353">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                          
                                          The cost of a particular
domestic construction material that is a critical item or contains
critical components, subject to the requirements of the Buy American
statute, is unreasonable when the cost of such material exceeds
the cost of foreign material by more than 20 percent plus the additional
preference factor identified for the critical item or construction
material containing critical components listed at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e362">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                          
                                          For construction material
that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or
a combination of both, if the cost of a particular domestic construction
material is determined to be unreasonable or there is no domestic
offer received, and the low offer is for foreign construction material
that does not exceed 55 percent domestic content, the Contracting Officer
will treat the lowest offer of foreign construction material that
is manufactured in the United States and exceeds 55 percent domestic
content as a domestic offer, and determine whether the cost of that
offer is unreasonable by applying the evaluation factor listed in
paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B)<i>(1)</i> of this clause.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e371">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                                          
                                          The procedures in paragraph
(b)(4)(i)(B)<i>(2)</i> of this clause will no longer apply as of
January 1, 2030.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e282">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                               The application
of the restriction of the Buy American Act to a particular construction
material would be impracticable or inconsistent with the public
interest; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e287">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                               The
construction material is not mined, produced, or manufactured in
the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial
quantities of a satisfactory quality.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e292">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                   Request
for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American statute.</p>
               <ol id="d3370e519">
                  <li props="Runin">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e298">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3370e529">
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e303">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                               Any Contractor
request to use foreign construction material in accordance with
paragraph (b)(4) of this clause shall include adequate information
for Government evaluation of the request, including-</p>
                           <ol id="d3370e539">
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e309">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                    
                                     A
description of the foreign and domestic construction materials;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e314">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                    
                                     Unit of
measure;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e319">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>
                                    
                                     Quantity;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e324">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(D)</ph>
                                    
                                     Price;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e329">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(E)</ph>
                                    
                                     Time of
delivery or availability;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e334">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(F)</ph>
                                    
                                     Location
of the construction project;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e339">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(G)</ph>
                                    
                                     Name and
address of the proposed supplier; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e344">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(H)</ph>
                                    
                                     A detailed
justification of the reason for use of foreign construction materials
cited in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this clause.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e349">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                               A request
based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of
the market and a completed price comparison table in the format
in paragraph (d) of this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e354">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                               The
price of construction material shall include all delivery costs
to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not
a duty-free certificate may be issued).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e359">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                              
                               Any Contractor
request for a determination submitted after contract award shall
explain why the Contractor could not reasonably foresee the need
for such determination and could not have requested the determination
before contract award. If the Contractor does not submit a satisfactory
explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make a determination.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e364">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                         If the
Government determines after contract award that an exception to
the Buy American statute applies and the Contracting Officer and
the Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the Contracting
Officer will modify the contract to allow use of the foreign construction
material. However, when the basis for the exception is the unreasonable price
of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is not
less than the differential established in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of
this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e369">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                         Unless
the Government determines that an exception to the Buy American
statute applies, use of foreign construction material is noncompliant
with the Buy American statute.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e374">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i>Data</i>.
To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause
based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following
information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey
of suppliers:</p>
               <table colsep="0" frame="none" rowsep="0">
                  <tgroup cols="4" colsep="0" outputclass="Notitle_norule" rowsep="0">
                     <colspec colname="1"
                              colnum="1"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="37*"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colname="2"
                              colnum="2"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="23*"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colname="3"
                              colnum="3"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="22*"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colname="4"
                              colnum="4"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <tbody>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry align="center"
                                  nameend="4"
                                  namest="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_CtrSmallCaps"
                                  xtrc="9pt_SmallCaps">Foreign
and Domestic Construction Materials Price Comparison</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">Construction
Material Description</entry>
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="2"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">Unit of Measure</entry>
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="3"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">Quantity</entry>
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="4"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">Price (Dollars)*</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Hanging_FL"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Hanging_FL">
                              <p outputclass="List1">Item1</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2">
                              <p/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3">
                              <p/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4">
                              <p/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Hanging_FL"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Hanging_FL">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Foreign construction
material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e848" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e793" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e797" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Hanging_FL"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Hanging_FL">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Domestic construction
material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e808" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e813" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e818" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Hanging_FL"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Hanging_FL">
                              <p outputclass="List1">Item1</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2">
                              <p/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3">
                              <p/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4">
                              <p/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Hanging_FL"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Hanging_FL">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Foreign construction
material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e852" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e858" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e864" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Hanging_FL"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Hanging_FL">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Domestic construction
material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e871" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e878" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt &amp; align = “center">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e885" xtrf="VFI">_______</cite>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                     </tbody>
                  </tgroup>
               </table>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e459">[* <i>Include all delivery
costs to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether
or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued</i>)].</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e464">[ <i>List name, address, telephone number,
and contact for suppliers surveyed. Attach copy of response; if
oral, attach summary.</i> ]</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e469">[ <i>Include
other applicable supporting information.</i> ]</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3409e478">
               <i>Alternate I</i>
               <ph rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] Technical Amendment?>
                  <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Nov 2023)</ph>
                  <?FM MARKER [Why] 6.  Amend section 52.225-11 in Alternate I by— 	  a. Revising the date of the Alternate and removing from the introductory text the word “Bahrainian” and adding “Bahraini” in its place; ?>
               </ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
                  <xref base="i1090904"
                        href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1102</xref>
               </ph>(c)(3), add the following definition of "<ph rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] Technical Amendment?>Bahraini<?FM MARKER [Why] 	  b. Removing from the title of the definition “Bahrainian, Mexican, or Omani construction material” the word “Bahrainian” and adding “Bahraini” in its place; and?></ph>, Mexican, or Omani construction material" to paragraph (a) of the basic clause, and
               substitute the following paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p>"<ph rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023">Bahraini</ph>, Mexican, or Omani construction material" means a construction material that-</p>
            <p outputclass="List2">(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or
manufacture of Bahrain, Mexico, or Oman; or</p>
            <p outputclass="List2">(2)
In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or
in part of materials from another country, has been substantially
transformed in Bahrain, Mexico, or Oman into a new and different
construction material distinct from the materials from which it
was transformed.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="id211EG0K0VYK" outputclass="List1">(b) Construction materials. (1) This clause implements <xref format="html"
                     href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                     scope="external">41 U.S.C. chapter 83</xref>, Buy American, by providing a preference for domestic construction material. In accordance with <xref format="html"
                     href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                     scope="external">41 U.S.C. 1907</xref>, the domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for construction material that is a COTS item, except that for construction material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only to the iron and steel content of the construction material, excluding COTS fasteners. (See <xref base="i1112949"
                     href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">12.505</xref>(a)(2)). In addition, the Contracting
               Officer has determined that the WTO GPA and all the Free Trade Agreements except the Bahrain FTA, United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and the Oman FTA apply to this acquisition. Therefore, the Buy American statute restrictions are waived for designated country construction materials other than <ph rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] Technical Amendment?>Bahraini<?FM MARKER [Why] 	  c. Removing from paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) the word “Bahrainian” and adding “Bahraini” in its place, respectively.?></ph>, Mexican, or Omani construction materials.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2" id="d3407e617">(2) The Contractor shall use only domestic or designated country construction material other than <ph rev="FAC 2024-01 Effective November 14, 2023">Bahraini</ph>, Mexican, or Omani construction material in performing this contract, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3410e607" outputclass="List1">
               <i>Alternate II</i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Oct 2022)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
                  <xref base="i1090904"
                        href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1102</xref>
               </ph>(c)(4) substitute
the following sentence for the first sentence of paragraph (1)(ii)(A)
of the definition of <i>domestic construction material</i> in paragraph
(a):</p>
            <p id="d3410e622" outputclass="List4">(A) The cost of its components mined,
               produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.225-11_d1e975" xtrf="GFI">__</cite> percent of the cost of all its components. [
               <i>Contracting officer to insert the percentage.</i> ]</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
