<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" id="FAR_52_222_33">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.222-33</ph> Notice of Requirement for Project Labor Agreement.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e8">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1097603" class="- topic/xref " href="22.505.dita#FAR_22_505" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">22.505</xref>(a)(1)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Notice of Requirement for Project Labor Agreement <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(May 2010)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3302e25">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e21">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>. "Labor organization" and "project labor agreement," as used in this provision, are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Project Labor Agreement.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e28">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph>
						            Consistent with applicable law, the offeror shall negotiate a project labor agreement with one or more labor organizations for the term of the resulting construction contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e33">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(c)</ph>
						            Consistent with applicable law, the project labor agreement reached pursuant to this provision shall-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3302e56">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e39">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph>
								                Bind the offeror and all subcontractors engaged in construction on the construction project to comply with the project labor agreement;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e44">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph>
								                Allow the offeror and all subcontractors to compete for contracts and subcontracts without regard to whether they are otherwise parties to collective bargaining agreements;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e49">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph>
								                Contain guarantees against strikes, lockouts, and similar job disruptions;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e54">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph>
								                Set forth effective, prompt, and mutually binding procedures for resolving labor disputes arising during the term of the project labor agreement;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e59">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph>
								                Provide other mechanisms for labor-management cooperation on matters of mutual interest and concern, including productivity, quality of work, safety, and health; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e64">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph>
								                Fully conform to all statutes, regulations, Executive orders, and agency requirements.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e69">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(d)</ph>
						            Any project labor agreement reached pursuant to this provision does not change the terms of this contract or provide for any price adjustment by the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3341e74">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(e)</ph>
						            The offeror shall submit to the Contracting Officer a copy of the project labor agreement with its offer.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of Provision)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3344e80">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I </i><ph outputclass="SmCaps">(May 2010)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph "><xref base="i1097603" class="- topic/xref " href="22.505.dita#FAR_22_505" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">22.505</xref></ph>(a)(1), substitute the following paragraphs (b) and (e) for paragraphs (b) and (e) of the basic clause.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) The apparent successful offeror shall negotiate a project labor agreement with one or more labor organizations for the term of the resulting construction contract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(e) The apparent successful offeror shall submit to the Contracting Officer a copy of the project labor agreement prior to contract award.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II </i><ph outputclass="SmCaps">(May 2010)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph "><xref base="i1097603" class="- topic/xref " href="22.505.dita#FAR_22_505" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">22.505</xref></ph>(a)(2), substitute the following paragraph (b) in lieu of paragraphs (b) through (e) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) Consistent with applicable law, if awarded the contract, the offeror shall negotiate a project labor agreement with one or more labor organizations for the term of the resulting construction contract.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>