<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_222_36"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.222-36</ph> Equal Opportunity	for Workers with Disabilities.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3343e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed	in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="22.1408.dita#FAR_22_1408"
                     base="i1095976"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">22.1408</xref>(a)</ph>, insert	the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Equal	Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3305e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3343e19" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Equal	opportunity clause. The Contractor shall abide by the requirements	of the equal opportunity clause at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">41 CFR 60-741</ph>.5(a),	as of March 24, 2014. This clause prohibits discrimination against	qualified individuals on the basis of disability, and requires affirmative	action by the Contractor to employ and advance in employment qualified	individuals with disabilities.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3343e27" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Subcontracts.	The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause in every subcontract	or purchase order in excess of the	threshold specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref href="22.1408.dita#FAR_22_1408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.1408</xref>(a)	on the date of subcontract award, unless exempted by rules,	regulations, or orders of the Secretary, so that such provisions	will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The Contractor	shall act as specified by the Director, Office of Federal Contract	Compliance Programs of the U.S. Department of Labor, to enforce	the terms, including action for noncompliance. Such necessary changes	in language may be made as shall be appropriate to identify properly	the parties and their undertakings.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3347e32" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate	I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Jul</i>2014).</i> As prescribed in <xref href="22.1408.dita#FAR_22_1408"
                     base="i1095976"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">22.1408</xref>(b), add the following	as a preamble to the clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Notice:	The following term(s) of this clause are waived for this contract: <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                     xtrc="52.222-36_d3329e67"
                     class="- topic/cite ">_______________	[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">List term(s)</i>]</cite>.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
