<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_204_20" xtrc="VFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.204-20</ph> Predecessor of Offeror.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref href="4.1804.dita#FAR_4_1804"
                     base="FAR_4_1804"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">4.1804</xref>(d)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Predecessor of Offeror <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Aug 2020)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3065e25">
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i>Definitions</i>. As used in this provision–</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e27">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-20" xtrc="d3092e40">Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code</i> means–<ol id="d3065e41">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e33">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            An identifier assigned to entities located in the United States or its outlying areas by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch to identify a commercial or government entity by unique location; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e38">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            An identifier assigned by a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency (NSPA) to entities located outside the United States and its outlying areas that the DLA Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch records and maintains in the CAGE master file. This type of code is known as a NATO CAGE (NCAGE) code.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e42">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-20" xtrc="d3092e67">Predecessor</i> means an entity that is replaced by a successor and includes any predecessors of the predecessor.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e46">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-20" xtrc="d3092e73">Successor</i> means an entity that has replaced a predecessor by acquiring the assets and carrying out the affairs of the predecessor under a new name (often through acquisition or merger). The term "successor" does not include new offices/divisions of the same company or a company that only changes its name. The extent of the responsibility of the successor for the liabilities of the predecessor may vary, depending on State law and specific circumstances.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e51">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						             The Offeror represents that it <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-20_d45e61" xtrf="VFI">□</cite> is or <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-20_d45e64" xtrf="VFI">□</cite> is not a successor to a predecessor that held a Federal contract or grant within the last three years.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						             If the Offeror has indicated "is" in paragraph (b) of this provision, enter the following information for all predecessors that held a Federal contract or grant within the last three years (if more than one predecessor, list in reverse chronological order):</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e68">Predecessor CAGE code:<cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.204-20_d1e110" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite> (or mark "Unknown").</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e73">Predecessor legal name: <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.204-20_d1e116" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite>.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3095e78">(<i>Do not use a "doing business as" name</i>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
