<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_247_13"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            xtrc=" Editable">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.247-13</ph> Accessorial Services-Moving Contracts.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="47.207-5.dita#FAR_47_207_5"
                     base="i1071062"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">47.207-5</xref>(c)</ph>, insert a clause substantially as follows in solicitations and contracts for the transportation of household goods or office furniture:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3691e15">Accessorial Services-Moving Contracts <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Apr 1984)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3647e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Packing and/or crating and padding.</i> The Contractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d3647e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Perform all of the packing and/or crating and padding necessary for the protection of the goods to be trans-ported;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Furnish packing containers, including, but not limited to, barrels, boxes, wardrobes, and cartons; all crating materials; and all padding materials and equipment;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Furnish or cause to be furnished, when necessary, padding or other protective material for the interior of the buildings, including elevators, from and to which the property will be moved under this contract; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                Ensure that all containers and materials are clean and of quality sufficient for protection of the goods.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Disassembling and reassembling of property and servicing appliances.</i> The disassembling of property;<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> beds and sectional bookcases, and the preparing of appliances; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> washers, driers, and record players, for shipment shall be performed by the Contractor. The Contractor shall reassemble the property and service the appliances upon delivery at the new location.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3691e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unpacking and/or uncrating and placement of property.</i> The Contractor shall unpack and/or uncrate all property that was packed and/or crated for movement under this contract. The Contractor shall also place the property in the new location as instructed by the owner of the property or authorized representative, and shall remove all packing and similar or related material from the premises as requested by the- owner.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
