<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_232_16"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.232-16</ph> Progress Payments.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3513e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="32.502-4.dita#FAR_32_502_4"
                     base="i1082151"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.502-4</xref>(a)</ph>, insert	the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Progress	Payments (Jun 2020)</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The Government will make progress payments to the Contractor	when requested as work progresses, but not more frequently than	monthly, in amounts of $2,500 or more approved by the Contracting	Officer, under the following conditions:</p>
         <ol id="d3470e28" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Computation of amounts.</p>
               <ol id="d3470e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Unless	the Contractor requests a smaller amount, the Government will compute	each progress payment as 80 percent of the Contractor’s total costs	incurred under this contract whether or not actually paid, plus financing	payments to subcontractors (see paragraph (j) of this clause), less	the sum of all previous progress payments made by the Government	under this contract. The Contracting Officer will consider cost	of money that would be allowable under Federal Acquisition Regulation	(FAR)<xref href="31.205-10.dita#FAR_31_205_10"
                              base="i1084979"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">31.205-10</xref> as an incurred	cost for progress payment purposes.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e35" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The amount	of financing and other payments for supplies and services purchased	directly for the contract are limited to the amounts that have been	paid by cash, check, or other forms of payment, or that are determined	due and will be paid to subcontractors-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e60" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e41" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    In accordance	with the terms and conditions of a subcontract or invoice; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e46" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Ordinarily	within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor’s payment request	to the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The Government	will exclude accrued costs of Contractor contributions under employee	pension plans until actually paid unless-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e90" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e57" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The Contractor’s	practice is to make contributions to the retirement fund quarterly	or more frequently; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e62" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The contribution	does not remain unpaid 30 days after the end of the applicable quarter	or shorter payment period (any contribution remaining unpaid shall	be excluded from the Contractor’s total costs for progress payments	until paid).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e67" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The Contractor	shall not include the following in total costs for progress payment	purposes in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause:</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e120" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e73" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Costs that	are not reasonable, allocable to this contract, and consistent with	sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e78" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Costs incurred	by subcontractors or suppliers.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e83" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Costs	ordinarily capitalized and subject to depreciation or amortization	except for the properly depreciated or amortized portion of such	costs.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e88" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    Payments	made or amounts payable to subcontractors or suppliers, except for-</p>
                           <ol id="d3470e157" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e94" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        Completed	work, including partial deliveries, to which the Contractor has	acquired title; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e99" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        Work under	cost-reimbursement or time-and-material subcontracts to which the	Contractor has acquired title.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e104" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                The amount	of unliquidated progress payments may exceed neither (i) the progress	payments made against incomplete work (including allowable unliquidated	progress payments to subcontractors) nor (ii) the value, for progress	payment purposes, of the incomplete work. Incomplete work shall	be considered to be the supplies and services required by this contract,	for which delivery and invoicing by the Contractor and acceptance	by the Government are incomplete.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e109" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
								                The total	amount of progress payments shall not exceed 80 percent of the total	contract price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e114" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
								                If a progress	payment or the unliquidated progress payments exceed the amounts	permitted by paragraphs (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this clause, the Contractor	shall repay the amount of such excess to the Government on demand.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e119" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
								                Notwithstanding	any other terms of the contract, the Contractor agrees not to request	progress payments in dollar amounts of less than $2,500. The Contracting	Officer may make exceptions.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e124" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
								                The costs	applicable to items delivered, invoiced, and accepted shall not	include costs in excess of the contract price of the items.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e129" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Liquidation</i>.	Except as provided in the Termination for Convenience of the Government	clause, all progress payments shall be liquidated by deducting from	any payment under this contract, other than advance or progress	payments, the unliquidated progress payments, or 80 percent of the	amount invoiced, whichever is less. The Contractor shall repay to	the Government any amounts required by a retroactive price reduction,	after computing liquidations and payments on past invoices at the	reduced prices and adjusting the unliquidated progress payments	accordingly. The Government reserves the right to unilaterally change	from the ordinary liquidation rate to an alternate rate when deemed	appropriate for proper contract financing.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e136" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reduction	or suspension</i>. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend	progress payments, increase the rate of liquidation, or take a combination	of these actions, after finding on substantial evidence any of the	following conditions:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e144" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The Contractor failed to comply	with any material requirement of this contract (which includes paragraphs (f)	and (g) of this clause).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e149" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Performance	of this contract is endangered by the Contractor’s—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e155" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Failure to	make progress; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e160" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Unsatisfactory	financial condition.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e165" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Inventory	allocated to this contract substantially exceeds reasonable requirements.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e170" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The Contractor	is delinquent in payment of the costs of performing this contract	in the ordinary course of business.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e175" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                The fair	value of the undelivered work is less than the amount of unliquidated	progress payments for that work.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e180" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
								                The Contractor	is realizing less profit than that reflected in the establishment	of any alternate liquidation rate in paragraph (b) of this	clause, and that rate is less than the progress payment rate stated	in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e185" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Title.</p>
               <ol id="d3470e261" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e191" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Title	to the property described in this paragraph (d) shall vest in the	Government. Vestiture shall be immediately upon the date of this	contract, for property acquired or produced before that date. Otherwise,	vestiture shall occur when the property is or should have been allocable	or properly chargeable to this contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e196" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                "Property,"	as used in this clause, includes all of the below-described items	acquired or produced by the Contractor that are or should be allocable	or properly chargeable to this contract under sound and generally	accepted accounting principles and practices.</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e280" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e202" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Parts,	materials, inventories, and work in process;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e207" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Special	tooling and special test equipment to which the Government is to	acquire title;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e212" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Nondurable	(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> noncapital) tools, jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns,	taps, gauges, test equipment, and other similar manufacturing aids,	title to which would not be obtained as special tooling under paragraph	(d)(2)(ii) of this clause; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e220" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    Drawings	and technical data, to the extent the Contractor or subcontractors	are required to deliver them to the Government by other clauses	of this contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e225" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Although	title to property is in the Government under this clause, other	applicable clauses of this contract; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> the termination	clauses, shall determine the handling and disposition of the property.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e233" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The Contractor	may sell any scrap resulting from production under this contract	without requesting the Contracting Officer’s approval, but the proceeds	shall be credited against the costs of performance.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e238" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                To acquire	for its own use or dispose of property to which title is vested	in the Government under this clause, the Contractor must obtain	the Contracting Officer’s advance approval of the action and the	terms. The Contractor shall (i) exclude the allocable costs of the	property from the costs of contract performance, and (ii) repay	to the Government any amount of unliquidated progress payments allocable	to the property. Repayment may be by cash or credit memorandum.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e243" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
								                When the	Contractor completes all of the obligations under this contract,	including liquidation of all progress payments, title shall vest	in the Contractor for all property (or the proceeds thereof) not-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e362" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e249" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Delivered	to, and accepted by, the Government under this contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e254" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Incorporated	in supplies delivered to, and accepted by, the Government under	this contract and to which title is vested in the Government under	this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e259" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
								                The terms	of this contract concerning liability for Government-furnished property	shall not apply to property to which the Government acquired title	solely under this clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e264" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Risk	of loss</i>. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government,	the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title	to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the	extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. The Contractor	shall repay the Government an amount equal to the unliquidated progress	payments that are based on costs allocable to property that is lost	(see <xref href="45.101.dita#FAR_45_101"
                        base="i1073110"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">45.101</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e274" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Control	of costs and property</i>. The Contractor shall maintain an accounting	system and controls adequate for the proper administration of this	clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e281" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
						            Reports,	forms, and access to records.</p>
               <ol id="d3470e431" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e287" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The Contractor	shall promptly furnish reports, certificates, financial statements,	and other pertinent information (including estimates to complete)	reasonably requested by the Contracting Officer for the administration	of this clause. Also, the Contractor shall give the Government reasonable	opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor’s books, records,	and accounts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e292" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The Contractor	shall furnish estimates to complete that have been developed or	updated within six months of the date of the progress payment request.	The estimates to complete shall represent the Contractor’s best	estimate of total costs to complete all remaining contract work	required under the contract. The estimates shall include sufficient	detail to permit Government verification.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e297" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                Each Contractor	request for progress payment shall:</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e459" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e303" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Be submitted	on Standard Form 1443, Contractor’s Request for Progress Payment,	or the electronic equivalent as required by agency regulations,	in accordance with the form instructions and the contract terms;	and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e308" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Include	any additional supporting documentation requested by the Contracting	Officer.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e313" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special	terms regarding default</i>. If this contract is terminated under	the Default clause, (i) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to	the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and	(ii) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of	progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects	not to require delivery under the Default clause. The Government	shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default	clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e320" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
						            Reservations	of rights.</p>
               <ol id="d3470e503" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e326" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                No payment or vesting of title	under this clause shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e513" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e332" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Excuse the Contractor from performance	of obligations under this contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e337" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Constitute	a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the parties under the	contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e342" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The Government’s	rights and remedies under this clause-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e543" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e348" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Shall not	be exclusive but rather shall be in addition to any other rights	and remedies provided by law or this contract; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e353" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Shall	not be affected by delayed, partial, or omitted exercise of any	right, remedy, power, or privilege, nor shall such exercise or any	single exercise preclude or impair any further exercise under this	clause or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege of	the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e358" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Financing	payments to subcontractors.</i> The financing payments to subcontractors	mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this clause shall be	all financing payments to subcontractors or divisions, if the following	conditions are met:</p>
               <ol id="d3470e578" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e366" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The amounts included are limited	to-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e588" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e372" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The unliquidated remainder of financing	payments made; plus</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e377" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Any unpaid	subcontractor requests for financing payments.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e382" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The subcontract	or interdivisional order is expected to involve a minimum of approximately	6 months between the beginning of work and the first delivery; or,	if the subcontractor is a small business concern, 4 months.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e387" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                If the	financing payments are in the form of progress payments, the terms	of the subcontract or interdivisional order concerning progress	payments-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e627" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e393" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Are substantially similar to the	terms of this clause for any subcontractor that is a large business	concern, or this clause with its Alternate I for any subcontractor	that is a small business concern;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e398" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Are at	least as favorable to the Government as the terms of this clause;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e403" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Are not	more favorable to the subcontractor or division than the terms of	this clause are to the Contractor;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e408" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    Are in	conformance with the requirements of FAR <xref href="32.504.dita#FAR_32_504"
                                    base="i1082458"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">32.504</xref>(e); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e416" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
										                    Subordinate	all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government	has title under the subcontract to the Government’s right to require	delivery of the property to the Government if-</p>
                           <ol id="d3470e676" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e422" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The Contractor	defaults; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e427" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The subcontractor	becomes bankrupt or insolvent.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e432" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                If the	financing payments are in the form of performance-based payments,	the terms of the subcontract or interdivisional order concerning	payments-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e708" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e438" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Are substantially similar to the	Performance-Based Payments clause at FAR <xref href="52.232-32.dita#FAR_52_232_32"
                                    base="i1050610"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-32</xref> and meet the	criteria for, and definition of, performance-based payments in FAR <xref href="Part_32.dita#FAR_Part_32"
                                    base="i1083955"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  32</xref>;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e449" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Are in	conformance with the requirements of FAR <xref href="32.504.dita#FAR_32_504"
                                    base="i1082458"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">32.504</xref>(f); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e457" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Subordinate	all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government	has title under the subcon-</p>
                           <p id="d3513e461" class="- topic/p ">tract to the	Government’s right to require delivery of the property to the Government	if-</p>
                           <ol id="d3470e748" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e465" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The Contractor defaults; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e470" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The subcontractor	becomes bankrupt or insolvent.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e475" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
								                If the	financing payments are in the form of commercial item financing	payments, the terms of the subcontract or interdivisional order	concerning payments-</p>
                     <ol id="d3470e789" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e481" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Are constructed in accordance with	FAR <xref href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                                    base="i1083258"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">32.206</xref>(c) and included	in a subcontract for a commercial item purchase that meets the definition	and standards for acquisition of commercial items in FAR <xref href="Part_2.dita#FAR_Part_2"
                                    base="i1126310"
                                    outputclass="fm:Parts"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">parts  2</xref> and <xref href="Part_12.dita#FAR_Part_12"
                                    base="i1113784"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">12</xref>;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e495" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Are in	conformance with the requirements of FAR <xref href="32.504.dita#FAR_32_504"
                                    base="i1082458"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">32.504</xref>(g); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3513e503" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Subordinate	all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government	has title under the subcontract to the Government’s right to require	delivery of the property to the Government if-</p>
                           <ol id="d3470e829" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e509" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
												                        The Contractor	defaults; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3513e514" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
												                        The subcontractor	becomes bankrupt or insolvent.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e519" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
								                If financing	is in the form of progress payments, the progress payment rate in	the subcontract is the customary rate used by the contracting agency,	depending on whether the subcontractor is or is not a small business	concern.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e524" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
								                Concerning	any proceeds received by the Government for property to which title	has vested in the Government under the subcontract terms, the parties	agree that the proceeds shall be applied to reducing any unliquidated	financing payments by the Government to the Contractor under this	contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e529" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
								                If no unliquidated	financing payments to the Contractor remain, but there are unliquidated	financing payments that the Contractor has made to any subcontractor,	the Contractor shall be subrogated to all the rights the Government obtained	through the terms required by this clause to be in any subcontract,	as if all such rights had been assigned and transferred to the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3513e534" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
								                To facilitate	small business participation in subcontracting under this contract,	the Contractor shall provide financing payments to small business	concerns, in conformity with the standards for customary contract	financing payments stated in FAR <xref href="32.113.dita#FAR_32_113"
                              base="i1083846"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">32.113</xref>. The Contractor	shall not consider the need for such financing payments as a handicap	or adverse factor in the award of subcontracts.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e542" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(k)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Limitations	on undefinitized contract actions</i>. Notwithstanding any other	progress payment provisions in this contract, progress payments	may not exceed 80 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished	under undefinitized contract actions. A "contract action" is any	action resulting in a contract, as defined in <xref href="Subpart_2.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_2_1"
                        base="i1125357"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  2.1</xref>, including	contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but	not including contract modifications that are within the scope and	under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications	issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or funding and other administrative changes.	This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in	accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, and shall remain in	effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs incurred	which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor	progress payment requests and invoices from those costs eligible	for higher progress payment rates. For purposes of progress payment	liquidation, as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, progress	payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated	at 80 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the	undefinitized contract action as long as the contract action remains	undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for	undefinitized contract actions shall not exceed 80 percent of the	maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract	action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract.	Separate limits may be specified for separate actions.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e553" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(l)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Due	date</i>. The designated payment office will make progress payments	on the <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                        xtrc="52.232-16_d3494e978"
                        class="- topic/cite ">_________	[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer insert date as prescribed by agency head;	if not prescribed, insert "30th"</i>]</cite> day after the designated	billing office receives a proper progress payment request. In the	event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a	specific progress payment request to ensure compliance with the	terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office	is not compelled to make payment by the specified due date. Progress	payments are considered contract financing and are not subject to	the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3513e566" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(m)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Progress	payments under indefinite-delivery contracts</i>. The Contractor	shall account for and submit progress payment requests under individual	orders as if the order constituted a separate contract, unless otherwise	specified in this contract.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3512e576" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate	I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Mar</i>2000)</i>. If the contract is with a small business	concern, change each mention of the progress payment and liquidation	rates excepting paragraph (k) to the customary rate of 85 percent	for small business concerns (see FAR <xref href="32.501-1.dita#FAR_32_501_1"
                     base="i1082067"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.501-1</xref>).</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate	II (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>2003)</i>. If the contract is a letter contract, add	paragraphs (n) and (o). The amount specified in paragraph (o) shall	not exceed 80 percent of the maximum liability of the Government	under the letter contract. The contracting officer may specify separate	limits for separate parts of the work.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(n)	The Contracting Officer will liquidate progress payments made under	this letter contract, unless previously liquidated under paragraph	(b) of this clause, using the following procedures:</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) If this letter contract is superseded	by a definitive contract, unliquidated progress payments made under	this letter contract shall be liquidated by deducting the amount	from the first progress or other payments made under the definitive contract.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) If this letter contract is not superseded	by a definitive contract calling for the furnishing of all or part	of the articles or services covered under the letter contract, unliquidated	progress payments made under the letter contract shall be liquidated	by deduction from the amount payable under the Termination clause.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) If this letter contract is partly	terminated and partly superseded by a contract, the Government will	allocate the unliquidated progress payments to the terminated and	unterminated portions as the Government deems equitable, and will liquidate	each portion under the relevant procedure in paragraphs (n)(1) and	(n)(2) of this clause.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) If the method	of liquidating progress payments provided in this clause does not	result in full liquidation, the Contractor shall immediately pay	the unliquidated balance to the Government on demand.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(o) The amount of unliquidated progress	payments shall not exceed <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrc="52.232-16_d3494e1051"
                     class="- topic/cite ">_____________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting	Officer specify dollar amount</i>]</cite>.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3513e616" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III</i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Jun 2020)</ph>. As prescribed	in <xref href="32.502-4.dita#FAR_32_502_4"
                     base="i1082151"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.502-4</xref>(d), add the following	paragraph (n) to the basic clause. If Alternate II is also being	used, redesignate the following paragraph as paragraph (p):</p>
            <p id="d3503e633" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(n) The provisions of	this clause will not be applicable to individual orders at or below	the simplified acquisition threshold, as	defined in FAR <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                     base="i1125359"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> on	the date of individual order award.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
