<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_222_19">
      <title>
         <ph props="autonumber">52.222-19</ph> Child Labor-Cooperation
with Authorities and Remedies.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref href="22.1505.dita#FAR_22_1505"
                     base="i1095872"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">22.1505</xref>(b)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">
            <ph rev="FAC 2023-01 December 30, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2020-014?>Child Labor-Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Dec 2022)<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.222-19 by—   a. Revising the date of the clause;?></ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3288e25">
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i>Applicability</i>.
This clause does not apply to the extent that the Contractor is
supplying end products mined, produced, or manufactured in-</p>
               <ol id="d3288e38">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e32">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-01 December 30, 2022"/>Israel, and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $50,000 or more;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-01 December 30, 2022"/>Mexico, and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $92,319 or more; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e42">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, <ph rev="FAC 2023-01 December 30, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2020-014?>Canada,<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing paragraph (a)(1);   c. Redesignating paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) as paragraphs (a)(1) through (3); and   d. Adding “Canada,” in newly redesignated paragraph (a)(3) between “Bulgaria,” and “Croatia”.?></ph> Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or the United Kingdom and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $183,000 or more.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i>Cooperation
with Authorities</i>. To enforce the laws prohibiting the manufacture
or importation of products mined, produced, or manufactured by forced
or indentured child labor, authorized officials may need to conduct
investigations to determine whether forced or indentured child labor
was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any product furnished
under this contract. If the solicitation includes the provision <xref href="52.222-18.dita#FAR_52_222_18"
                        base="i1055635"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.222-18</xref>, Certification
Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products, or the
equivalent at <xref href="52.212-3.dita#FAR_52_212_3"
                        base="i1060550"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.212-3</xref>(i),
the Contractor agrees to cooperate fully with authorized officials of
the contracting agency, the Department of the Treasury, or the Department
of Justice by providing reasonable access to records, documents,
persons, or premises upon reasonable request by the authorized officials.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e60">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i>Violations</i>.
The Government may impose remedies set forth in paragraph (d) for
the following violations:</p>
               <ol id="d3288e107">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The Contractor has submitted a
false certification regarding knowledge of the use of forced or
indentured child labor for listed end products.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e73">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The Contractor
has failed to cooperate, if required, in accordance with paragraph
(b) of this clause, with an investigation of the use of forced or
indentured child labor by an Inspector General, Attorney General,
or the Secretary of the Treasury.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e78">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The Contractor
uses forced or indentured child labor in its mining, production,
or manufacturing processes.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e83">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         The Contractor
has furnished under the contract end products or components that
have been mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part by
forced or indentured child labor. (The Government will not pursue
remedies at paragraph (d)(2) or paragraph (d)(3) of this clause
unless sufficient evidence indicates that the Contractor knew of
the violation.)</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e88">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   Remedies.</p>
               <ol id="d3288e155">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e94">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The
Contracting Officer may terminate the contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e99">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The suspending
official may suspend the Contractor in accordance with procedures
in FAR <xref href="Subpart_9.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_9_4"
                              base="i1115147"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart">subpart  9.4</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3327e107">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The debarring
official may debar the Contractor for a period not to exceed 3 years
in accordance with the procedures in FAR <xref href="Subpart_9.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_9_4"
                              base="i1115147"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart">subpart  9.4</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
