<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="FAR_52_243_1" xtrc="" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "> <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.243-1</ph> Changes-Fixed-Price.</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p id="d3627e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph "> 43.305(a)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause. Agency procedures may vary the 30-day period.</p><p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3627e15" class="- topic/p ">Changes-Fixed Price <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Deviation Date)</ph> 
         </p><ol id="d3584e25" class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3627e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> 
               </p>
               <ol id="d3584e35" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3627e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>  At any time, the Contracting Officer may issue a written order making changes within the scope of this contract related to:</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Drawings, designs, or specifications which require special manufacturing of supplies for the Government,</p>
                        </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The method of shipment or packing, or</p>
                        </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Place of delivery.</p>
                        </li></ol>
                  </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3627e32" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If there are any sureties, the Contracting Officer does not need to notify them of a written order.</p>
                  </li></ol>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3627e42" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Whether or not changed by the order, if any of the changes cause an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of the work under this contract, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract.</p>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3627e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract.</p>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3627e52" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> If the Contractor's proposal includes the cost of property made obsolete or has become excess by the change, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of the disposition of the property.</p>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3627e57" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
						            Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.</p>
            </li></ol><p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p><section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3623e65" class="- topic/p "> 
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I </i> 
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Deviation Date)</ph>. If no supplies are to be furnished and the requirement is for services, other than architect-engineer or other professional services, the following paragraph (a) will be substituted for paragraph (a) in the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) At any time, the Contracting Officer may issue a written order making changes within the scope of this contract in any one or more of the following:</p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Description of services to be performed.</p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Time of performance (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> hours of the day, days of the week, etc.).</p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Place of performance of the services.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) If there are any sureties, the Contracting Officer does not need to notify them of a written order.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3623e84" class="- topic/p "> 
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II </i> (Deviation Date). If the requirement is for services (other than architect-engineer services, transportation, or research and development) and supplies are to be furnished, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) At any time, the Contracting Officer may issue a written order making changes within the scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Description of services to be performed. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Time of performance (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, hours of the day, days of the week, etc.). </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Place of performance of the services. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) Drawings, designs, or specifications which require special manufacturing of supplies for the Government. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v) Method of shipment or packing of supplies. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi) Place of delivery.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) If there are any sureties, the Contracting Officer does not need to notify them of a written order.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3623e110" class="- topic/p "> 
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III </i> 
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Deviation Date)</ph>. If the requirement is for architect-engineer or other professional services, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause and add the following paragraph (f):</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) At any time, the Contracting Officer may issue a written order to make changes within the scope of this contract in the services to be performed.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) If there are any sureties, the Contracting Officer does not need to notify them of a written order.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) No services for which an additional cost or fee will be charged by the Contractor shall be furnished without the prior written authorization of the Contracting Officer.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3623e124" class="- topic/p "> 
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate IV </i> (Deviation Date). If the requirement is for transportation services, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) At any time, the Contracting Officer may issue a written order to make changes within the scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Specifications. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Work or services. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Place of origin. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) Place of delivery. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v) Tonnage to be shipped. </p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi) Amount of Government-furnished property.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (2) If there are any sureties, the Contracting Officer does not need to notify them of a written order.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3623e146" class="- topic/p "> 
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate V </i>(Deviation Date). If the requirement is for research and development and it is desired to include the clause, substitute the following subparagraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(iii) and paragraph (b) for subparagraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(iii) and paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1)</p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Drawings, designs, or specifications.</p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Place of inspection, delivery, or acceptance.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Place of inspection, delivery, or acceptance.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or time required for, performing this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in—</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The contract price, the time of performance, or both; and</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Other affected terms of the contract, and shall modify the contract accordingly.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section></conbody></concept></dita>