<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            id="FAR_52_230_1"
            xtrc="VFI GFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.230-1</ph> Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e8">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1087121"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="30.201-3.dita#FAR_30_201_3"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">30.201-3</xref>
            </ph>(a), insert the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification (Jun 2020)</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="NoIndent">Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">I. Disclosure Statement-Cost Accounting Practices and Certification</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3446e38">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e26">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph> Any contract in excess of the lower CAS threshold specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 30.201-4(b) resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (<xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/chapter-99"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">48 CFR chapter 99</xref>), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e31">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph> Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="CFR">
                     <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/chapter-99"
                           scope="external"
                           format="html">48 CFR chapter 99</xref>
                  </ph>must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="CFR">48 CFR 9903.202</ph>. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror’s proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e41">Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e44">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(c)</ph> Check the appropriate box below:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3446e72">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e50">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph>
                        <cite class="- topic/cite "
                              outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_d37e60"
                              xtrf="VFI">□</cite> <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement</i>. The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows:</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3446e85">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e61">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e66">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> One copy to the cognizant Federal auditor.</p>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e70">(Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official.)</p>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e72">Date of Disclosure Statement: <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                    xtrf="VFI"
                                    xtrc="52.230-1_mb3_yq4_21c"
                                    class="- topic/cite ">_________________________</cite> Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                                    xtrf="VFI"
                                    xtrc="52.230-1_dcc_2r4_21c"
                                    class="- topic/cite ">_______________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e74">The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e77">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph>
                        <cite class="- topic/cite "
                              outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_d37e87"
                              xtrf="VFI">□</cite> <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement</i>. The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows:</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e86">Date of Disclosure Statement: <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                              xtrf="VFI"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_tf3_hr4_21c"
                              class="- topic/cite ">_________________________</cite> Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                              xtrf="VFI"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_xsn_3r4_21c"
                              class="- topic/cite ">_______________________________________</cite>
                     </p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e88">The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e91">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph>
                        <cite class="- topic/cite "
                              outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_d37e101"
                              xtrf="VFI">□</cite> <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Certificate of Monetary Exemption</i>. The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e101">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph>
                        <cite class="- topic/cite "
                              outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_d37e111"
                              xtrf="VFI">□</cite> <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Certificate of Interim Exemption</i>. The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance with <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="CFR">48 CFR 9903.202-1</ph>, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of PartI of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e113">
                        <term class="- topic/term ">Caution</term>: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e117" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">II. Cost Accounting Standards-Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e119">If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="CFR">48 CFR 9903.201-2(b)</ph> and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e124">
                        <cite class="- topic/cite "
                              outputclass="Checkbox"
                              xtrc="52.230-1_d61e134"
                              xtrf="VFI">□</cite> The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="CFR">48 CFR 9903.201-2(b)</ph> and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAS-covered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e131">
                        <term class="- topic/term ">Caution</term>: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e135" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e137">The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts.</p>
                     <table class="- topic/table " colsep="0" frame="none" rowsep="0">
                        <tgroup class="- topic/tgroup "
                                cols="2"
                                colsep="0"
                                outputclass="Notitle_norule"
                                rowsep="0">
                           <colspec class="- topic/colspec "
                                    colname="1"
                                    colnum="1"
                                    colsep="0"
                                    colwidth="50*"
                                    rowheader="headers"/>
                           <colspec class="- topic/colspec "
                                    colname="2"
                                    colnum="2"
                                    colsep="0"
                                    colwidth="50*"
                                    rowheader="headers"/>
                           <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                              <row class="- topic/row " rowsep="0">
                                 <entry class="- topic/entry " colname="1">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3464e199">
                                       <cite class="- topic/cite "
                                             outputclass="Checkbox"
                                             xtrc="52.230-1_d37e154"
                                             xtrf="VFI">□</cite> Yes</p>
                                 </entry>
                                 <entry class="- topic/entry " colname="2">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3464e208">
                                       <cite class="- topic/cite "
                                             outputclass="Checkbox"
                                             xtrc="52.230-1_d37e159"
                                             xtrf="VFI">□</cite> No</p>
                                 </entry>
                              </row>
                           </tbody>
                        </tgroup>
                     </table>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e132">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Apr 1996)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1087121"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="30.201-3.dita#FAR_30_201_3"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">30.201-3</xref>
               </ph>(b), add the following paragraph (c)(5) to Part I of the basic provision:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3490e169">
               <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="Checkbox"
                     xtrc="52.230-1_d61e181"
                     xtrf="GFI">□</cite>(5) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Certificate of Disclosure Statement Due Date by Educational Institution.</i> If the offeror is an educational institution that, under the transition provisions of <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="CFR">48 CFR 9903.202-1(f)</ph>, is or will be required to submit a Disclosure Statement after receipt of this award, the offeror hereby certifies that (check one and complete):</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3464e247">
               <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="Checkbox"
                     xtrc="52.230-1_d61e191"
                     xtrf="VFI">□</cite> (i) A Disclosure Statement Filing Due Date of <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrf="VFI"
                     xtrc="52.230-1_kfq_ss4_21c"
                     class="- topic/cite ">_____________</cite> has been established with the cognizant Federal agency.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3464e253">
               <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="Checkbox"
                     xtrc="52.230-1_d61e195"
                     xtrf="VFI">□</cite> (ii) The Disclosure Statement will be submitted within the 6-month period ending <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrf="VFI"
                     xtrc="52.230-1_s2c_5s4_21c"
                     class="- topic/cite ">_________</cite> months after receipt of this award.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="NoIndent">Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Disclosure Statement is to be Filed:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="NoIndent">
               <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                     xtrf="VFI"
                     xtrc="52.230-1_qht_vs4_21c"
                     class="- topic/cite ">__________________________________________________</cite> __________________________________________________</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
