<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_232_36" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.232-36</ph> Payment by Third Party.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="32.1110.dita#FAR_32_1110"
                     base="i1080821"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.1110</xref>(d)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3534e15">Payment by Third Party <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(May 2014)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3490e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General</i>. </p>
               <ol id="d3490e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to accept payments due under this contract, through payment by a third party in lieu of payment directly from the Government, in accordance with the terms of this clause. The third party and, if applicable, the particular Governmentwide commercial purchase card to be used are identified elsewhere in this contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The Governmentwide commercial purchase card is not authorized as a method of payment during any period the System for Award Management (SAM) indicates that the Contractor has delinquent debt that is subject to collection under the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). Information on TOP is available at <xref href="http://fms.treas.gov/debt/index.html"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://fms.treas.gov/debt/index.html</xref>. If the SAM subsequently indicates that the Contractor no longer has delinquent debt, the Contractor may request the Contracting Officer to authorize payment by Governmentwide commercial purchase card.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor payment request</i>. </p>
               <ol id="d3490e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e50">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause, the Contractor shall make payment requests through a charge to the Government account with the third party, at the time and for the amount due in accordance with those clauses of this contract that authorize the Contractor to submit invoices, contract financing requests, other payment requests, or as provided in other clauses providing for payment to the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e55">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                When the Contracting Officer has notified the Contractor that the Governmentwide commercial purchase card is no longer an authorized method of payment, the Contractor shall make such payment requests in accordance with instructions provided by the Contracting Officer during the period when the purchase card is not authorized.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e60">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Payment</i>. The Contractor and the third party shall agree that payments due under this contract shall be made upon submittal of payment requests to the third party in accordance with the terms and conditions of an agreement between the Contractor, the Contractor’s financial agent (if any), and the third party and its agents (if any). No payment shall be due the Contractor until such agreement is made. Payments made or due by the third party under this clause are not payments made by the Government and are not subject to the Prompt Payment Act or any implementation thereof in this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e67">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Documentation</i>. Documentation of each charge against the Government’s account shall be provided to the Contracting Officer upon request.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e74">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Assignment of claims</i>. Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, if any payment is made under this clause, then no payment under this contract shall be assigned under the provisions of the assignment of claims terms of this contract or the Assignment of Claims Act of1940 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3727&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">31 U.S.C.3727</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section6305&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">41 U.S.C. 6305</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3534e87">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Other payment terms</i>. The other payment terms of this contract shall govern the content and submission of payment requests. If any clause requires information or documents in or with the payment request, that is not provided in the third party agreement referenced in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall obtain instructions from the Contracting Officer before submitting such a payment request.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
