<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_215_14"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.215-14</ph> Integrity of Unit	Prices.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3217e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                     base="i1106593"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref>(f)(1)</ph>, insert	the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Integrity	of Unit Prices (Jun 2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3183e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3217e19" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Any	proposal submitted for the negotiation of prices for items of supplies	shall distribute costs within contracts on a basis that ensures	that unit prices are in proportion to the items’ base cost (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> manufacturing	or acquisition costs). Any method of distributing costs to line	items that distorts unit prices shall not be used. For example,	distributing costs equally among line items is not acceptable except	when there is little or no variation in base cost. Nothing in this	paragraph requires submission of certified cost or pricing data	not otherwise required by law or regulation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3217e27" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            When requested	by the Contracting Officer, the Offeror/Contractor shall also identify	those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will	not contribute significant value.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3217e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The Contractor shall insert	the substance of this clause, less paragraph (b) of this clause,	in all subcontracts for other than: acquisitions at or below the	simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition	Regulation (FAR) <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                        base="i1125359"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> on	the date of subcontract award; construction or architect-engineer	services under FAR <xref href="Part_36.dita#FAR_Part_36"
                        base="i1079251"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  36</xref>;	utility services under FAR <xref href="Part_41.dita#FAR_Part_41"
                        base="i1076909"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  41</xref>;	services where supplies are not required; commercial items; and	petroleum products.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3221e49" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate	I (Oct 1997)</i>. As prescribed in <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                     base="i1106593"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref>(f)(2), substitute	the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The Offeror/Contractor shall also	identify those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which	it will not contribute significant value.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
