<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_216_2"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.216-2</ph> Economic Price Adjustment-Standard
Supplies.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3230e8" rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="16.203-4.dita#FAR_16_203_4"
                     base="i1104904"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">16.203-4</xref>(a)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3230e15"
            rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            class="- topic/p ">Economic Price Adjustment-Standard
Supplies <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>(Nov <?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.216-2 by—
a. Revising the introductory text;
b. Revising the date of the clause; and?>2021)</p>
         <ol id="d3195e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3230e24" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The
Contractor warrants that the unit price stated in the Schedule for
_________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">offeror insert Schedule line item number</i>] is not
in excess of the Contractor’s applicable established price in effect
on the contract date for like quantities of the same item. The term
"unit price" excludes any part of the price directly resulting from
requirements for preservation, packaging, or packing beyond standard
commercial practice. The term "established price" means a price
that-</p>
               <ol id="d3195e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is an established catalog or market
price for a <ph rev="FAC 2022-01 December 6, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-018?>commercial <?FM MARKER [Why] c. Removing from paragraph (a) the term “commercial item” and adding “commercial product” in its place.?>product</ph> sold
in substantial quantities to the general public; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e44" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Is the
net price after applying any standard trade discounts offered by
the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3230e49" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The Contractor
shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the amount and
effective date of each decrease in any applicable established price.
Each corresponding contract unit price shall be decreased by the
same percentage that the established price is decreased. The decrease
shall apply to those items delivered on and after the effective
date of the decrease in the Contractor’s established price, and
this contract shall be modified accordingly.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3230e54" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> If the
Contractor’s applicable established price is increased after the
contract date, the corresponding contract unit price shall be increased,
upon the Contractor’s written request to the Contracting Officer,
by the same percentage that the established price is increased,
and the contract shall be modified accordingly, subject to the following
limitations:</p>
               <ol id="d3195e77" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The aggregate of the increases
in any contract unit price under this clause shall not exceed 10
percent of the original contract unit price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e65" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The increased
contract unit price shall be effective-</p>
                     <ol id="d3195e96" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3230e71" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> On the effective
date of the increase in the applicable established price if the
Contracting Officer receives the Contractor’s written request within
10 days thereafter; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3230e76" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> If the
written request is received later, on the date the Contracting Officer
receives the request.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e81" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The increased
contract unit price shall not apply to quantities scheduled under
the contract for delivery before the effective date of the increased
contract unit price, unless failure to deliver before that date
results from causes beyond the control and without the fault or
negligence of the Contractor, within the meaning of the Default
clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e86" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> No modification
increasing a contract unit price shall be executed under this paragraph
(c) until the Contracting Officer verifies the increase in the applicable
established price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3230e91" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Within
30 days after receipt of the Contractor’s written request, the Contracting
Officer may cancel, without liability to either party, any undelivered
portion of the contract items affected by the requested increase.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3230e96" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> During
the time allowed for the cancellation provided for in paragraph
(c)(5) of this clause, and thereafter if there is no cancellation,
the Contractor shall continue deliveries according to the contract
delivery schedule, and the Government shall pay for such deliveries
at the contract unit price, increased to the extent provided by
paragraph (c) of this clause.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
