<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept " id="FAR_52_219_9" xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.219-9</ph> Small Business Subcontracting
Plan.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " outputclass="clause">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e8">As prescribed
in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1100497"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="19.708.dita#FAR_19_708"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.708</xref>(b)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2025)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e25">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e19">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph> This
clause does not apply to small business concerns.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e24">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e30">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e51"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alaska Native Corporation
(ANC)</i> means any Regional Corporation, Village Corporation, Urban
Corporation, or Group Corporation organized under the laws of the
State of Alaska in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
Act, as amended (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1601&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">43 U.S.C. 1601</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et
seq.</i>) and which is considered a minority and economically disadvantaged
concern under the criteria at <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1626(e)(1)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(1)</xref>.
This definition also includes ANC direct and indirect subsidiary
corporations, joint ventures, and partnerships that meet the requirements
of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1626(e)(2)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(2)</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e46">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e78"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial plan</i> means a subcontracting
plan (including goals) that covers the offeror’s fiscal year and
that applies to the entire production of commercial products and
commercial services sold by either the entire company or a
portion thereof (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> division, plant, or product line).</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e53">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e69"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial product</i> 
                  means a product that satisfies
the definition of “commercial product” in Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) <xref base="i1125359"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref>.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e60">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e69s45"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial service</i> 
                  means a service that satisfies
the definition of “commercial service” in FAR <xref base="i1125359"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref>.
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e67">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e87"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System
(eSRS)</i> means the Governmentwide, electronic, web-based system
for small business subcontracting program reporting. The eSRS is
located at <xref class="- topic/xref "
                        format="html"
                        href="http://www.esrs.gov"
                        scope="external">http://www.esrs.gov</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e74">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e97"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Indian
tribe</i> means any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community,
including native villages and native groups (including corporations
organized by Kenai, Juneau, Sitka, and Kodiak) as defined in the
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1601&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">43 U.S.C. 1601</xref> et
seq.), that is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible
for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs in accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1452(c)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">25 U.S.C. 1452(c)</xref>.
This definition also includes Indian-owned economic enterprises
that meet the requirements of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1452(e)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">25 U.S.C. 1452(e)</xref>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e87">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e112"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Individual subcontracting plan</i> means
a subcontracting plan that covers the entire contract period (including
option periods), applies to a specific contract, and has goals that
are based on the offeror's planned subcontracting in support of
the specific contract, except that indirect costs incurred for common
or joint purposes may be allocated on a prorated basis to the contract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e91">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e118"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Master subcontracting plan</i> means a subcontracting
plan that contains all the required elements of an individual subcontracting
plan, except goals, and may be incorporated into individual subcontracting
plans, provided the master subcontracting plan has been approved.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e95">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e124"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reduced payment</i> means a payment that
is for less than the amount agreed upon in a subcontract in accordance
with its terms and conditions, for supplies and services for which
the Government has paid the prime contractor.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e99">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e130"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontract</i> means
any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship)
entered into by a Federal Government prime Contractor or subcontractor
calling for supplies or services required for performance of the
contract or subcontract.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e104">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e136"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Total contract dollars</i> means
the final anticipated dollar value, including the dollar value of
all options.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e108">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3277e143"
                     xtrf="_52.219-9"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Untimely payment</i> means
a payment to a subcontractor that is more than 90 days past due
under the terms and conditions of a subcontract for supplies and
services for which the Government has paid the prime contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e113">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(c)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e121">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e118">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The
Offeror, upon request by the <term class="- topic/term ">Contracting</term> Officer, shall
submit and negotiate a subcontracting plan, where applicable, that
separately addresses subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns. If the Offeror is submitting an individual subcontracting
plan, the plan must separately address subcontracting with small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns, with a separate part for
the basic contract and separate parts for each option (if any).
The subcontracting plan shall be included in and made a part of
the resultant contract. The subcontracting plan shall be negotiated
within the time specified by the Contracting Officer. Failure to
submit and negotiate the subcontracting plan shall make the Offeror
ineligible for award of a contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e126">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e143">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e131">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph>
                              Unless the Contractor has reason to question the representations, it may accept a subcontractor's written representations of its size and socioeconomic status as a small business, small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, or a women-owned small business if the subcontractor represents that the size and socioeconomic status representations with its offer are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of the offer for the subcontract.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e136">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph>
                              Unless the Contractor has reason to question the representations, it may accept a subcontractor's representations of its size and socioeconomic status as a small business, small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, or a women-owned small business in the System for Award Management (SAM) if—
                           </p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e165">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e142">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> The subcontractor is registered
in SAM; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e147">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> The subcontractor
represents that the size and socioeconomic status representations
made in SAM are current, accurate and complete as of the date of
the offer for the subcontract.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e152">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> The
Contractor may not require the use of SAM for the purposes of representing
size or socioeconomic status in connection with a subcontract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e157">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> In accordance with 13
                              CFR 121.411, 126.900, 127.700, and
                              128.600,
                              a contractor acting in good faith is not liable
                              for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors
                              regarding the subcontractor's size or
                              socioeconomic status.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e165">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(d)</ph> The Offeror’s
subcontracting plan shall include the following:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e217">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e171">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph>
                        Separate goals, expressed in terms of total dollars subcontracted, and as a percentage of total planned subcontracting dollars, for the use of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors. For individual subcontracting plans, and if required by the Contracting Officer, goals shall also be expressed in terms of percentage of total contract dollars, in addition to the goals expressed as a percentage of total subcontract dollars. The Offeror shall include all subcontracts that contribute to contract performance, and may include a proportionate share of products and services that are normally allocated as indirect costs. In accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/15/657r"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 657r(a)</xref>, an Offeror that is a mentor with an SBA-approved mentor-protégé agreement (see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.9"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.9</xref>) that provides a subcontract to its protégé may apply the costs incurred for training it provides to its protégé toward its subcontracting plan goals, provided that protégé is a covered territory business or that protégé has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/43/1626"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">43 U.S.C. 1626</xref>—
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e230">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e180">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Subcontracts
awarded to an ANC or Indian tribe shall be counted towards the subcontracting
goals for small business and small disadvantaged business concerns,
regardless of the size or Small Business Administration certification
status of the ANC or Indian tribe; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e185">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Where
one or more subcontractors are in the subcontract tier between the
prime Contractor and the ANC or Indian tribe, the ANC or Indian
tribe shall designate the appropriate Contractor(s) to count the
subcontract towards its small business and small disadvantaged business
subcontracting goals.</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e249">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e191">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> In most cases, the appropriate
Contractor is the Contractor that awarded the subcontract to the
ANC or Indian tribe.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e196">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> If the
ANC or Indian tribe designates more than one Contractor to count
the subcontract toward its goals, the ANC or Indian tribe shall
designate only a portion of the total subcontract award to each
Contractor. The sum of the amounts designated to various Contractors
cannot exceed the total value of the subcontract.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e201">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(C)</ph> The ANC
or Indian tribe shall give a copy of the written designation to
the Contracting Officer, the prime Contractor, and the subcontractors
in between the prime Contractor and the ANC or Indian tribe within
30 days of the date of the subcontract award.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e206">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(D)</ph> If the
Contracting Officer does not receive a copy of the ANC’s or the
Indian tribe’s written designation within 30 days of the subcontract
award, the Contractor that awarded the subcontract to the ANC or
Indian tribe will be considered the designated Contractor.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e211">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> A statement
of–</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e299">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e217">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Total dollars planned to be subcontracted
for an individual subcontracting plan; or the Offeror's total projected sales,
expressed in dollars, and the total value of projected subcontracts,
including all indirect costs except as described in paragraph (g)
of this clause, to support the sales for a commercial plan;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e222">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to small business concerns (including
ANC and Indian tribes);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e227">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to veteran-owned small business
concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e232">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to service-disabled veteran-owned
small business;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e237">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(v)</ph> Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to HUBZone small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e242">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vi)</ph> Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to small disadvantaged business
concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e247">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vii)</ph> Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to women-owned small business
concerns.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e252">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> A description
of the principal types of supplies and services to be subcontracted,
and an identification of the types planned for subcontracting to-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e375">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e258">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Small
business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e263">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Veteran-owned
small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e268">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Service-disabled
veteran-owned small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e273">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> HUBZone
small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e278">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(v)</ph> Small
disadvantaged business concerns; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e283">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vi)</ph> Women-owned
small business concerns.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e288">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph> A description
of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals in paragraph
(d)(1) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e293">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph> A description
of the method used to identify potential sources for solicitation
purposes (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, existing company source lists, SAM, veterans
service organizations, the National Minority Purchasing Council
Vendor Information Service, the Research and Information Division
of the Minority Business Development Agency in the Department of
Commerce, or small, HUBZone, small disadvantaged, and women-owned
small business trade associations). A firm may rely on the information
contained in SAM as an accurate representation of a concern's size
and ownership characteristics for the purposes of maintaining a
small, veteran-owned small, service-disabled veteran-owned small,
HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business
source list. Use of SAM as its source list does not relieve a firm
of its responsibilities (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, outreach, assistance, counseling,
or publicizing subcontracting opportunities) in this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e304">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph> A statement
as to whether or not the Offeror included indirect costs in establishing
subcontracting goals, and a description of the method used to determine
the proportionate share of indirect costs to be incurred with–</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e467">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e310">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Small
business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e315">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Veteran-owned
small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e320">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Service-disabled
veteran-owned small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e325">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> HUBZone
small business concerns;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e330">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(v)</ph> Small
disadvantaged business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes);
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e335">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vi)</ph> Women-owned
small business concerns.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e340">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(7)</ph> The name
of the individual employed by the Offeror who will administer the
Offeror's subcontracting program, and a description of the duties
of the individual.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e345">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(8)</ph> A description
of the efforts the Offeror will make to assure that small business,
veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns have an equitable opportunity
to compete for subcontracts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e350">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(9)</ph>
                        Assurances that the Offeror will include the clause of this contract entitled “Utilization of Small Business Concerns” in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities, and that the Offeror will require all subcontractors (except small business concerns, including entities that are treated as small business concerns by statute for certain purposes ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> ANCs, see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.3#p-125.3(b)(2)"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.3(b)(2)</xref>)) that receive subcontracts in excess of the applicable threshold specified in FAR <xref class="- topic/xref "
                              href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref>(a) on the date of subcontract award, with further subcontracting possibilities to adopt a subcontracting plan that complies with the requirements of this clause.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e358">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(10)</ph> Assurances
that the Offeror will–</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e561">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e364">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Cooperate in any studies or surveys
as may be required;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e369">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Submit periodic reports so that the Government can determine the extent of compliance by the Contractor with the subcontracting plan;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e374">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> After November 30, 2017, include subcontracting data for each order when reporting subcontracting achievements for indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contracts with individual subcontracting plans where the contract is intended for use by multiple agencies;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e382">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> Submit
the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR) and/or the Summary Subcontract
Report (SSR), in accordance with paragraph (l) of this clause using
the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at <xref class="- topic/xref "
                                    format="html"
                                    href="http://www.esrs.gov"
                                    scope="external">http://www.esrs.gov</xref>.
The reports shall provide information on subcontract awards to small
business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes that are not
small businesses), veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small
disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes
that have not been certified by the Small Business Administration
as small disadvantaged businesses), women-owned small business concerns,
and for NASA only, Historically Black Colleges and Universities
and Minority Institutions. Reporting shall be in accordance with
this clause, or as provided in agency regulations;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e390">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(v)</ph> Ensure
that its subcontractors with subcontracting plans agree to submit
the ISR and/or the SSR using eSRS;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e395">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vi)</ph> Provide its prime contract number, its unique entity identifier, and the e-mail address of the Offeror’s official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to all first-tier subcontractors with subcontracting plans so they can enter this information into the eSRS when submitting their ISRs; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e403">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vii)</ph> Require that each subcontractor with a subcontracting plan provide the prime contract number, its own unique entity identifier, and the e-mail address of the subcontractor’s official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to its subcontractors with subcontracting plans.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e411">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(11)</ph> A description
of the types of records that will be maintained concerning procedures
that have been adopted to comply with the requirements and goals
in the plan, including establishing source lists; and a description
of the offeror’s efforts to locate small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns and award subcontracts to them. The records shall
include at least the following (on a plant-wide or company-wide
basis, unless otherwise indicated):</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e640">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e417">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Source lists
(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> SAM), guides, and other data that identify small business,
veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e425">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Organizations
contacted in an attempt to locate sources that are small business,
veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
or women-owned small business concerns.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e430">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Records
on each subcontract solicitation resulting in an award of more than
the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR <xref base="i1125359"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref> on the date of subcontract
award, indicating-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e671">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e439">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> Whether small business concerns
were solicited and, if not, why not;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e444">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> Whether
veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not,
why not;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e449">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(C)</ph> Whether
service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited
and, if not, why not;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e454">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(D)</ph> Whether
HUBZone small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why
not;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e459">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(E)</ph> Whether
small disadvantaged business concerns were solicited and, if not,
why not;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e464">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(F)</ph> Whether
women-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not,
why not; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e469">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(G)</ph> If applicable,
the reason award was not made to a small business concern.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e474">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> Records
of any outreach efforts to contact-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e747">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e480">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> Trade associations;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e485">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> Business
development organizations;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e490">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(C)</ph> Conferences
and trade fairs to locate small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged,
service-disabled veteran-owned, and women-owned small business sources;
and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e495">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(D)</ph> Veterans
service organizations.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e500">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(v)</ph> Records
of internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e795">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e506">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> Workshops,
seminars, training, etc.; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e511">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> Monitoring
performance to evaluate compliance with the program’s requirements.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e516">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(vi)</ph> On a
contract-by-contract basis, records to support award data submitted
by the offeror to the Government, including the name, address, and
business size of each subcontractor. Contractors having commercial
plans need not comply with this requirement.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e522">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(12)</ph> Assurances
that the Offeror will make a good faith effort to acquire articles,
equipment, supplies, services, or materials, or obtain the performance
of construction work from the small business concerns that it used
in preparing the bid or proposal, in the same or greater scope,
amount, and quality used in preparing and submitting the bid or
proposal. Responding to a request for a quote does not constitute
use in preparing a bid or proposal. The Offeror used a small business
concern in preparing the bid or proposal if–</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e838">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e528">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> The Offeror
identifies the small business concern as a subcontractor in the
bid or proposal or associated small business subcontracting plan,
to furnish certain supplies or perform a portion of the subcontract;
or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e533">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> The Offeror
used the small business concern's pricing or cost information or
technical expertise in preparing the bid or proposal, where there
is written evidence of an intent or understanding that the small
business concern will be awarded a subcontract for the related work
if the Offeror is awarded the contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e538">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(13)</ph> Assurances
that the Contractor will provide the Contracting Officer with a
written explanation if the Contractor fails to acquire articles,
equipment, supplies, services or materials or obtain the performance
of construction work as described in (d)(12) of this clause. This
written explanation must be submitted to the Contracting Officer
within 30 days of contract completion.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e543">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(14)</ph> Assurances
that the Contractor will not prohibit a subcontractor from discussing
with the Contracting Officer any material matter pertaining to payment
to or utilization of a subcontractor.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e548">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(15)</ph> Assurances that the Contractor will pay its small business subcontractors on time and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the underlying subcontract, and notify the contracting officer when the prime contractor makes either a reduced or an untimely payment to a small business subcontractor (see <xref class="- topic/xref "
                              href="52.242-5.dita#FAR_52_242_5"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.242-5</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e556">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(e)</ph> In order
to effectively implement this plan to the extent consistent with
efficient contract performance, the Contractor shall perform the
following functions:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e900">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e562">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> Assist small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small
business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business
concerns by arranging solicitations, time for the preparation of
bids, quantities, specifications, and delivery schedules so as to
facilitate the participation by such concerns. Where the Contractor’s
lists of potential small business, veteran-owned small business,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business,
small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business subcontractors
are excessively long, reasonable effort shall be made to give all
such small business concerns an opportunity to compete over a period
of time.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e567">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> Provide
adequate and timely consideration of the potentialities of small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns in all "make-or-buy" decisions.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e572">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> Counsel
and discuss subcontracting opportunities with representatives of
small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business firms.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e577">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph>
                         Confirm
                           that a subcontractor representing itself as a HUBZone
                           small business concern is certified by SBA as a
                           HUBZone small business concern by accessing SAM or by
                           accessing the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) at
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                           <xref format="html"
                                 href="https://web.sba.gov/pro-net/search/dsp_dsbs.cfm"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">https://web.sba.gov/​pro-net/​search/​dsp_​dsbs.cfm</xref>.</i>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e585">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph> Provide
notice to subcontractors concerning penalties and remedies for misrepresentations
of business status as small, veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business for the purpose
of obtaining a subcontract that is to be included as part or all
of a goal contained in the Contractor’s subcontracting plan.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e590">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph> For all
competitive subcontracts over the simplified acquisition threshold,
as defined in FAR <xref base="i1125359"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref> on the date of subcontract
award, in which a small business concern received a small business
preference, upon determination of the successful subcontract offeror,
prior to award of the subcontract the Contractor must inform each
unsuccessful small business subcontract offeror in writing of the
name and location of the apparent successful offeror and if the
successful subcontract offeror is a small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small
business concern.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e598">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(7)</ph> Assign
each subcontract the NAICS code and corresponding size standard
that best describes the principal purpose of the subcontract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e603">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(f)</ph> A master
subcontracting plan on a plant or division-wide basis that contains
all the elements required by paragraph (d) of this clause, except
goals, may be incorporated by reference as a part of the subcontracting
plan required of the Offeror by this clause; provided-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e980">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e609">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The
master subcontracting plan has been approved;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e614">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The Offeror
ensures that the master subcontracting plan is updated as necessary
and provides copies of the approved master subcontracting plan,
including evidence of its approval, to the Contracting Officer;
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e619">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> Goals
and any deviations from the master subcontracting plan deemed necessary
by the Contracting Officer to satisfy the requirements of this contract
are set forth in the individual subcontracting plan.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e624">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(g)</ph> A commercial
plan is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors
furnishing commercial products
and commercial services. The commercial plan shall relate to
the offeror’s planned subcontracting generally, for both commercial
and Government business, rather than solely to the Government contract.
Once the Contractor’s commercial plan has been approved, the Government
will not require another subcontracting plan from the same Contractor
while the plan remains in effect, as long as the product or service
being provided by the Contractor continues to meet the definition
of a commercial product
or commercial service. A Contractor with a commercial plan
shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in paragraph
(d)(10) of this clause by submitting one SSR in eSRS for all contracts
covered by its commercial plan. A Contractor authorized to use a
commercial subcontracting plan shall include in its subcontracting
goals and in its SSR all indirect costs, with the exception of those
such as the following: Employee salaries and benefits; payments
for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property taxes;
lease payments; bank fees; fines, claims, and dues; original equipment
manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated up
front with the product); utilities and other services purchased
from a municipality or an entity solely authorized by the municipality
to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and
philanthropic contributions. This report shall be acknowledged or
rejected in eSRS by the Contracting Officer who approved the plan.
This report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the
Government’s fiscal year.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e629">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(h)</ph> Prior
compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under
previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer
in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the
contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e634">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> A contract
may have no more than one subcontracting plan. When a contract modification
exceeds the subcontracting plan threshold in FAR <xref base="i1100224"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref>(a), or an option
is exercised, the goals of the existing subcontracting plan shall
be amended to reflect any new subcontracting opportunities. When
the goals in a subcontracting plan are amended, these goal changes do
not apply retroactively.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e642">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(j)</ph> Subcontracting
plans are not required from subcontractors when the prime contract
contains the clause at FAR <xref base="i1061237"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="52.212-5.dita#FAR_52_212_5"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.212-5</xref>, Contract
Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive
Orders-Commercial Products
and Commercial Services, or when the subcontractor provides
a commercial product or
commercial service subject to the clause at FAR <xref base="i1048410"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="52.244-6.dita#FAR_52_244_6"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.244-6</xref>, Subcontracts
for Commercial Products
and Commercial Services, under a prime contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e653">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(k)</ph> The failure
of the Contractor or subcontractor to comply in good faith with
(1) the clause of this contract entitled "Utilization Of Small Business
Concerns;" or (2) an approved plan required by this clause, shall
be a material breach of the contract and may be considered in any
past performance evaluation of the Contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e659">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(l)</ph> The Contractor
shall submit ISRs and SSRs using the web-based eSRS at <xref class="- topic/xref "
                        format="html"
                        href="http://www.esrs.gov"
                        scope="external">http://www.esrs.gov</xref>.
Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision that is an
affiliate of the Contractor or subcontractor are not included in
these reports. Subcontract awards by affiliates shall be treated
as subcontract awards by the Contractor. Subcontract award data
reported by the Contractor and subcontractors shall be limited to
awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot
be taken for awards made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the
Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small
business or small disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian
tribe. Only subcontracts involving performance in the United States
or its outlying areas should be included in these reports with the
exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the State
Department or any other agency that has statutory or regulatory
authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed
outside the United States and its outlying areas.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1098">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e668">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">ISR</i>.
This report is not required for commercial plans. The report is
required for each contract containing an individual subcontracting
plan.</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1111">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e676">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> The report shall be submitted
semi-annually during contract performance for the periods ending
March 31 and September 30. A report is also required for each contract
within 30 days of contract completion. Reports are due 30 days after
the close of each reporting period, unless otherwise directed by
the Contracting Officer. Reports are required when due, regardless
of whether there has been any subcontracting activity since the
inception of the contract or the previous reporting period. When
the Contracting Officer rejects an ISR, the Contractor shall submit
a corrected report within 30 days of receiving the notice of ISR
rejection.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e681">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph>
                           </p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1133">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e686">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> When
a subcontracting plan contains separate goals for the basic contract
and each option, as prescribed by FAR <xref base="i1100278"
                                          class="- topic/xref "
                                          href="19.704.dita#FAR_19_704"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.704</xref>(c), the dollar
goal inserted on this report shall be the sum of the base period
through the current option; for example, for a report submitted
after the second option is exercised, the dollar goal would be the sum
of the goals for the basic contract, the first option, and the second
option.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e694">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> If a subcontracting
plan has been added to the contract pursuant to <xref class="- topic/xref "
                                          href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref> a)(1)(iii)
or <xref class="- topic/xref "
                                          href="19.301-2.dita#FAR_19_301_2"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.301-2</xref>(e), the Contractor's
achievements must be reported in the ISR on a cumulative basis from
the date of incorporation of the subcontracting plan into the contract.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e705">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> When
a subcontracting plan includes indirect costs in the goals, these
costs must be included in this report.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e710">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> The authority
to acknowledge receipt or reject the ISR resides–</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1178">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e716">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> In
the case of the prime Contractor, with the Contracting Officer;
and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e721">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> In the
case of a subcontract with a subcontracting plan, with the entity
that awarded the subcontract.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e726">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SSR</i>.</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1213">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e734">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Reports
submitted under individual contract plans–</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1223">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e740">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> This report
encompasses all subcontracting under prime contracts and subcontracts
with an executive agency, regardless of the dollar value of the
subcontracts. This report also includes indirect costs on a prorated basis
when the indirect costs are excluded from the subcontracting goals.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e745">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> The report
may be submitted on a corporate, company or subdivision (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i> plant
or division operating as a separate profit center) basis, unless
otherwise directed by the agency.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e753">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(C)</ph> If the
Contractor or a subcontractor is performing work for more than one
executive agency, a separate report shall be submitted to each executive
agency covering only that agency's contracts, provided at least
one of that agency's contracts is over the applicable threshold
specified in FAR <xref class="- topic/xref "
                                          href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref>(a), and the contractand
contains a subcontracting plan. For DoD, a consolidated report shall
be submitted for all contracts awarded by military departments/agencies
and/or subcontracts awarded by DoD prime contractors.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e761">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(D)</ph> The report
shall be submitted annually by October 30 for the twelve month period
ending September 30. When a Contracting Officer rejects an SSR,
the Contractor shall submit a revised report within 30 days of receiving
the notice of SSR rejection.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e766">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(E)</ph> Subcontract
awards that are related to work for more than one executive agency
shall be appropriately allocated.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e771">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(F)</ph> The authority
to acknowledge or reject SSRs in eSRS, including SSRs submitted
by subcontractors with subcontracting plans, resides with the Government
agency awarding the prime contracts unless stated otherwise in the
contract.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e776">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reports
submitted under a commercial plan</i>-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3245e1296">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e784">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> The report
shall include all subcontract awards under the commercial plan in
effect during the Government's fiscal year and all indirect costs.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e789">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> The report
shall be submitted annually, within thirty days after the end of
the Government's fiscal year.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e794">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(C)</ph> If a Contractor
has a commercial plan and is performing work for more than one executive
agency, the Contractor shall specify the percentage of dollars attributable
to each agency.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e799">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(D)</ph> The authority
to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with
the Contracting Officer who approved the commercial plan.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e807">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I</i>
               <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(Nov 2016)</ph>. As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1100497"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="19.708.dita#FAR_19_708"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.708</xref>
               </ph>(b)(1)(i), substitute
the following paragraph (c)(1) for paragraph (c)(1) of the basic
clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">(c)(1) The apparent low bidder, upon request by the
Contracting Officer, shall submit a subcontracting plan, where applicable, that
separately addresses subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns. If the bidder is submitting an individual subcontracting
plan, the plan must separately address subcontracting with small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and
women-owned small business concerns, with a separate part for the
basic contract and separate parts for each option (if any). The
plan shall be included in and made a part of the resultant contract.
The subcontracting plan shall be submitted within the time specified
by the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit the subcontracting
plan shall make the bidder ineligible for the award of a contract</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e820">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II</i>
               <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(Nov 2016).</ph> As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1100497"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="19.708.dita#FAR_19_708"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.708</xref>
               </ph>(b)(1)(ii),
substitute the following paragraph (c)(1) for paragraph (c)(1) of the
basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">(c)(1) Proposals submitted in response to this
solicitation shall include a subcontracting plan that separately
addresses subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned small
business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns. If the Offeror is submitting an individual subcontracting
plan, the plan must separately address subcontracting with small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns, with a separate part for
the basic contract and separate parts for each option (if any).
The plan shall be included in and made a part of the resultant contract.
The subcontracting plan shall be negotiated within the time specified
by the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate a subcontracting
plan shall make the Offeror ineligible for award of a contract.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e833">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III</i>
               <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(Jan 2025)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1100497"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="19.708.dita#FAR_19_708"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.708</xref>
               </ph>(b)(1)(iii), substitute the following paragraphs (d)(10) and (l) for paragraphs (d)(10) and (l) in the basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(d)(10)
Assurances that the offeror will—</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i)
Cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3" id="d3300e879">(ii) Submit periodic reports so that the Government can determine the extent of compliance by the Contractor with the subcontracting plan;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iii)
Submit Standard Form (SF) 294 Subcontracting Report for Individual
Contract in accordance with paragraph (l) of this clause. Submit
the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR), in accordance with paragraph
(l) of this clause using the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting
System (eSRS) at <xref class="- topic/xref "
                     format="html"
                     href="http://www.esrs.gov"
                     scope="external">http://www.esrs.gov</xref>. The reports shall
provide information on subcontract awards to small business concerns
(including ANCs and Indian tribes that are not small businesses),
veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small
disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes
that have not been certified by the Small Business Administration
as small disadvantaged businesses), women-owned small business concerns,
and for NASA only, Historically Black Colleges and Universities
and Minority Institutions. Reporting shall be in accordance with
this clause, or as provided in agency regulations; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iv) Ensure that its subcontractors with
subcontracting plans agree to submit the SF 294 in accordance with
paragraph (l) of this clause. Ensure that its subcontractors with
subcontracting plans agree to submit the SSR in accordance with
paragraph (l) of this clause using the eSRS.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(l) The Contractor shall submit a SF 294. The Contractor shall submit SSRs using the web-based eSRS at <xref class="- topic/xref "
                     format="html"
                     href="http://www.esrs.gov"
                     scope="external">http://www.esrs.gov</xref>. Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision that is an affiliate of the Contractor or subcontractor are not included in these reports. Subcontract awards by affiliates shall be treated as subcontract awards by the Contractor. Subcontract award data reported by the Contractor and subcontractors shall be limited to awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot be taken for awards made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small business or small disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian tribe. Only subcontracts involving performance in the U.S. or its outlying areas should be included in these reports with the exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the State Department or any other agency that has statutory or regulatory authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed outside the United States and its outlying areas.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SF 294</i>. This
report is not required for commercial plans. The report is required
for each contract containing an individual subcontracting plan.
For Contractors the report shall be submitted to the Contracting
Officer, or as specified elsewhere in this contract. In the case
of a subcontract with a subcontracting plan, the report shall be
submitted to the entity that awarded the subcontract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i) The report shall be submitted semi-annually
during contract performance for the periods ending March 31 and
September 30. A report is also required for each contract within
30 days of contract completion. Reports are due 30 days after the
close of each reporting period, unless otherwise directed by the
Contracting Officer. Reports are required when due, regardless of
whether there has been any subcontracting activity since the inception
of the contract or the previous reporting period. When a Contracting
Officer rejects a report, the Contractor shall submit a revised
report within 30 days of receiving the notice of report rejection.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii)(A) When a subcontracting plan contains
separate goals for the basic contract and each option, as prescribed
by FAR <xref base="i1100278"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="19.704.dita#FAR_19_704"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.704</xref>(c), the dollar
goal inserted on this report shall be the sum of the base period
through the current option; for example, for a report submitted
after the second option is exercised, the dollar goal would be the
sum of the goals for the basic contract, the first option, and the
second option.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3284e852" outputclass="List4">(B)
If a subcontracting plan has been added to the contract pursuant
to <xref class="- topic/xref "
                     href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref>(a)(1)(iii)
or 19.301-2(e), the Contractor's achievements must be reported in
the report on a cumulative basis from the date of incorporation
of the subcontracting plan into the contract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iii) When a subcontracting plan includes
indirect costs in the goals, these costs must be included in this
report.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SSR</i>. (i)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reports
submitted under individual contract plans</i>-</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A) This report encompasses all subcontracting
under prime contracts and subcontracts with an executive agency, regardless
of the dollar value of the subcontracts. This report also includes
indirect costs on a prorated basis when the indirect costs are excluded
from the subcontracting goals.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) The
report may be submitted on a corporate, company or subdivision (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
plant or division operating as a separate profit center) basis,
unless otherwise directed by the agency.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3273e920" outputclass="List4">(C) If the Contractor and/or a subcontractor
is performing work for more than one executive agency, a separate
report shall be submitted to each executive agency covering only
that agency's contracts, provided at least one of that agency's
contracts is over the applicable threshold specified in FAR <xref class="- topic/xref "
                     href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref>(a),
and the contract contains a subcontracting plan. For DoD, a consolidated
report shall be submitted for all contracts awarded by military
departments/agencies and/or subcontracts awarded by DoD prime contractors.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(D) The report shall be submitted annually
by October 30, for the twelve month period ending September 30.
When a Contracting Officer rejects an SSR, the Contractor is required
to submit a revised SSR within 30 days of receiving the notice of
report rejection.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(E) Subcontract awards
that are related to work for more than one executive agency shall
be appropriately allocated.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(F) The
authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs in the eSRS, including SSRs
submitted by subcontractors with subcontracting plans, resides with
the Government agency awarding the prime contracts unless stated
otherwise in the contract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reports
submitted under a commercial plan</i>-</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A)
The report shall include all subcontract awards under the commercial
plan in effect during the Government's fiscal year and all indirect
costs.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) The report shall be submitted
annually, within 30 days after the end of the Government's fiscal
year.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(C) If a Contractor has a commercial
plan and is performing work for more than one executive agency,
the Contractor shall specify the percentage of dollars attributable
to each agency.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(D) The authority to
acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the
Contracting Officer who approved the commercial plan.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e923">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate IV</i>
               <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(Jan 2025)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1100497"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="19.708.dita#FAR_19_708"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.708</xref>
               </ph>(b)(1)(iv), substitute the following paragraphs (c) and (d) for paragraphs (c) and (d) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(c)(1) The Contractor,
upon request by the Contracting Officer, shall submit and negotiate
a subcontracting plan, where applicable, that separately addresses
subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned small business,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business,
small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns.
If the Contractor is submitting an individual subcontracting plan,
the plan shall separately address subcontracting with small business,
veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns, with a separate part for
the basic contract and separate parts for each option (if any).
The subcontracting plan shall be incorporated into the contract.
The subcontracting plan shall be negotiated within the time specified
by the Contracting Officer. The subcontracting plan does not apply
retroactively.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2" id="d3300e976">(2)(i) Unless the Contractor has reason to question the representations, it may accept a subcontractor's written representations of its size and socioeconomic status as a small business, small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, or a women-owned small business if the subcontractor represents that the size and socioeconomic status representations with its offer are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of the offer for the subcontract.
            </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3" id="d3300e980">(ii) Unless the Contractor has reason to question the representations, it may accept a subcontractor's representations of its size and socioeconomic status as a small business, small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, or a women-owned small business in the System for Award Management (SAM) if—
            </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A) The subcontractor
is registered in SAM; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) The subcontractor
represents that the size and socioeconomic status representations
made in SAM are current, accurate and complete as of the date of
the offer for the subcontract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iii)
The Contractor may not require the use of SAM for the purposes of
representing size or socioeconomic status in connection with a subcontract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3281e944" outputclass="List3">(iv) In accordance with 13
               CFR 121.411, 126.900, 127.700, and
               128.600,
               a contractor acting in good faith is not liable for
               misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the
               subcontractor's size or socioeconomic status.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(d) The
Contractor's subcontracting plan shall include the following:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2" id="d3300e994">(1) Separate goals, expressed in terms of total dollars subcontracted and as a percentage of total planned subcontracting dollars, for the use of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors. For individual subcontracting plans, and if required by the Contracting Officer, goals shall also be expressed in terms of percentage of total contract dollars, in addition to the goals expressed as a percentage of total subcontract dollars. The Contractor shall include all subcontracts that contribute to contract performance, and may include a proportionate share of products and services that are normally allocated as indirect costs. In accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/15/657r"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 657r(a)</xref>, a Contractor that is a mentor with an SBA-approved mentor-protégé agreement (see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.9"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.9</xref>) that provides a subcontract to its protégé may apply the costs incurred for training it provides to its protégé toward its subcontracting plan goals, provided that protégé is a covered territory business or that protégé has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1626&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                     scope="external"
                     format="html"
                     class="- topic/xref ">43 U.S.C. 1626</xref>—
            </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="id218VK09E05Z" outputclass="List3">(i) Subcontracts awarded to an ANC or
Indian tribe shall be counted towards the subcontracting goals for
small business and small disadvantaged business concerns, regardless
of the size or Small Business Administration certification status
of the ANC or Indian tribe; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii)
Where one or more subcontractors are in the subcontract tier between
the prime Contractor and the ANC or Indian tribe, the ANC or Indian
tribe shall designate the appropriate Contractor(s) to count the
subcontract towards its small business and small disadvantaged business
subcontracting goals.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A) In most cases,
the appropriate Contractor is the Contractor that awarded the subcontract
to the ANC or Indian tribe.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) If the
ANC or Indian tribe designates more than one Contractor to count
the subcontract toward its goals, the ANC or Indian tribe shall
designate only a portion of the total subcontract award to each
Contractor. The sum of the amounts designated to various Contractors
cannot exceed the total value of the subcontract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(C) The ANC or Indian tribe shall give
a copy of the written designation to the Contracting Officer, the
Contractor, and the subcontractors in between the prime Contractor
and the ANC or Indian tribe within 30 days of the date of the subcontract
award.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(D) If the Contracting Officer
does not receive a copy of the ANC's or the Indian tribe's written
designation within 30 days of the subcontract award, the Contractor
that awarded the subcontract to the ANC or Indian tribe will be considered
the designated Contractor.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) A statement
of–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="id2197B010F5Z" outputclass="List3">(i) Total dollars
planned to be subcontracted for an individual subcontracting plan;
or the Contractor's total projected sales, expressed in dollars,
and the total value of projected subcontracts to support the sales
for a commercial plan, including all indirect costs, with the exception
of those such as the following: Employee salaries and benefits;
payments for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property
taxes; lease payments; bank fees; fines, claims, and dues; original
equipment manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated
up front with the product); utilities and other services purchased
from a municipality or an entity solely authorized by the municipality
to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and
philanthropic contributions;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iii) Total
dollars planned to be subcontracted to veteran-owned small business
concerns; (iv) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to service-disabled
veteran-owned small business; (v) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to
HUBZone small business concerns; (vi) Total dollars planned to be
subcontracted to small disadvantaged business concerns (including
ANCs and Indian tribes); and (vii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted
to women-owned small business concerns.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(3)
A description of the principal types of supplies and services to
be subcontracted, and an identification of the types planned for
subcontracting to</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i) Small business
concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii) Veteran-owned small business
concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iii) Service-disabled veteran-owned
small business concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iv) HUBZone
small business concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(v) Small disadvantaged
business concerns; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(vi) Women-owned
small business concerns.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(4) A description
of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals in paragraph
(d)(1) of this clause.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(5) A description
of the method used to identify potential sources for solicitation
purposes (e.g., existing company source lists, SAM, veterans service
organizations, the National Minority Purchasing Council Vendor Information
Service, the Research and Information Division of the Minority Business
Development Agency in the Department of Commerce, or small, HUBZone,
small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business trade associations).
The Contractor may rely on the information contained in SAM as an
accurate representation of a concern's size and ownership characteristics for
the purposes of maintaining a small, veteran-owned small, service-disabled
veteran-owned small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned
small business source list. Use of SAM as its source list does not
relieve a firm of its responsibilities (e.g., outreach, assistance,
counseling, or publicizing subcontracting opportunities) in this clause.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(6) A statement as to whether or not the
Contractor included indirect costs in establishing subcontracting
goals, and a description of the method used to determine the proportionate
share of indirect costs to be incurred with–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i)
Small business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes);</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii) Veteran-owned small business concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iii) Service-disabled veteran-owned small
business concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iv) HUBZone small
business concerns;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(v) Small disadvantaged
business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes); and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(vi) Women-owned small business concerns.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(7) The name of the individual employed
by the Contractor who will administer the Contractor's subcontracting
program, and a description of the duties of the individual.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(8) A description of the efforts the Contractor
will make to assure that small business, veteran-owned small business,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business,
small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns
have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3273e1041" outputclass="List2">(9) Assurances that the Contractor will include the clause of this contract entitled “Utilization of Small Business Concerns” in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities, and that the Contractor will require all subcontractors (except small business concerns, including entities that are treated as small business concerns by statute for certain purposes ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> ANCs, see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.3#p-125.3(b)(2)"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.3(b)(2)</xref>)) that receive subcontracts in excess of the applicable threshold specified in FAR <xref class="- topic/xref "
                     href="19.702.dita#FAR_19_702"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">19.702</xref>(a) on the date of subcontract award, with further subcontracting possibilities to adopt a subcontracting plan that complies with the requirements of this clause.
            </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(10) Assurances that
the Contractor will–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i) Cooperate in
any studies or surveys as may be required;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii)
Submit periodic reports so that the Government can determine the
extent of compliance by the Contractor with the subcontracting plan;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3263e1620" outputclass="List3">(iii) After November 30, 2017, include subcontracting data for each order when reporting subcontracting achievements for an indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contracts with individual subcontracting plans where the contract is intended for use by multiple agencies;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iv) Submit
the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR) and/or the Summary Subcontract
Report (SSR), in accordance with paragraph (l) of this clause using
the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at http://www.esrs.gov. The
reports shall provide information on subcontract awards to small
business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes that are not
small businesses), veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns,
small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian
tribes that have not been certified by SBA as small disadvantaged
businesses), women-owned small business concerns, and for NASA only,
Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions.
Reporting shall be in accordance with this clause, or as provided
in agency regulations;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(v) Ensure that
its subcontractors with subcontracting plans agree to submit the
ISR and/or the SSR using eSRS;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3263e1633" outputclass="List3">(vi) Provide its prime contract number, its unique entity identifier, and the e-mail address of the Contractor's official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to all first-tier subcontractors with subcontracting plans so they can enter this information into the eSRS when submitting their ISRs; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3263e1639" outputclass="List3">(vii) Require that each subcontractor with a subcontracting plan provide the prime contract number, its own unique entity identifier, and the e-mail address of the subcontractor's official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to its subcontractors with subcontracting plans.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(11) A description of the types
of records that will be maintained concerning procedures that have
been adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the plan,
including establishing source lists; and a description of the Contractor's efforts
to locate small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged
business, and women-owned small business concerns and award subcontracts
to them. The records shall include at least the following (on a
plant-wide or company-wide basis, unless otherwise indicated):</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i) Source lists (e.g., SAM), guides,
and other data that identify small business, veteran-owned small
business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(ii) Organizations
contacted in an attempt to locate sources that are small business,
veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
or women-owned small business concerns.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3273e1083" outputclass="List3">(iii) Records on each subcontract solicitation
resulting in an award of more than the simplified acquisition threshold, as
defined in FAR <xref base="i1125359"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref> on the date of subcontract
award, indicating–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A) Whether small
business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) Whether veteran-owned small business
concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(C) Whether service-disabled veteran-owned
small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(D) Whether HUBZone small business concerns
were solicited and, if not, why not;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(E)
Whether small disadvantaged business concerns were solicited and,
if not, why not;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(F) Whether women-owned
small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(G) If applicable, the reason award was
not made to a small business concern.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(iv)
Records of any outreach efforts to contact–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A)
Trade associations;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) Business development
organizations;</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(C) Conferences and trade
fairs to locate small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, service-disabled
veteran-owned, and women-owned small business sources; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(D) Veterans service organizations.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(v) Records of internal guidance and encouragement
provided to buyers through–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(A) Workshops,
seminars, training, etc.; and</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4">(B) Monitoring
performance to evaluate compliance with the program's requirements.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(vi) On a contract-by-contract basis,
records to support award data submitted by the Contractor to the
Government, including the name, address, and business size of each
subcontractor. Contractors having commercial plans need not comply
with this requirement.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(12) Assurances
that the Contractor will make a good faith effort to acquire articles,
equipment, supplies, services, or materials, or obtain the performance
of construction work from the small business concerns that it used
in preparing the proposal for the modification, in the same or greater
scope, amount, and quality used in preparing and submitting the modification
proposal. Responding to a request for a quote does not constitute
use in preparing a proposal. The Contractor used a small business
concern in preparing the proposal for a modification if–</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List3">(i) The Contractor identifies the small
business concern as a subcontractor in the proposal or associated
small business subcontracting plan, to furnish certain supplies
or perform a portion of the subcontract; or(ii) The Contractor used the
small business concern's pricing or cost information or technical
expertise in preparing the proposal, where there is written evidence
of an intent or understanding that the small business concern will
be awarded a subcontract for the related work when the modification
is executed.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(13) Assurances that the
Contractor will provide the Contracting Officer with a written explanation
if the Contractor fails to acquire articles, equipment, supplies,
services or materials or obtain the performance of construction
work as described in (d)(12) of this clause. This written explanation
must be submitted to the Contracting Officer within 30 days of contract
completion.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(14) Assurances that the
Contractor will not prohibit a subcontractor from discussing with
the contracting officer any material matter pertaining to the payment
to or utilization of a subcontractor.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2" id="d3300e1147">(15) Assurances that the Contractor will pay its small business subcontractors on time and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the underlying subcontract, and notify the contracting officer when the prime contractor makes either a reduced or an untimely payment to a small business subcontractor (see <xref class="- topic/xref "
                     href="52.242-5.dita#FAR_52_242_5"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.242-5</xref>).</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
