<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_216_6"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.216-6</ph> Price Redetermination-Retroactive.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3233e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed	in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="16.206-4.dita#FAR_16_206_4"
                     base="i1105051"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">16.206-4</xref>
            </ph>, insert	the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3233e14" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Price Redetermination-Retroactive <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 1997)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3199e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General</i>.	The unit price and the total price stated in this contract shall	be redetermined in accordance with this clause, but in no event	shall the total amount paid under this contract exceed <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                        xtrc="52.216-6_d3222e36"
                        class="- topic/cite ">__________	[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert dollar amount of ceiling price</i>]</cite>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e33" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition</i>.	"Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance	with <xref href="Part_31.dita#FAR_Part_31"
                        base="i1086363"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  31</xref> of the Federal	Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e43" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Data	submission.</p>
               <ol id="d3199e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3233e49" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Within<cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                              xtrc="52.216-6_d3222e75"
                              class="- topic/cite ">______ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer insert	number of days</i>]</cite> days after delivery of all supplies to	be delivered and completion of all services to be performed under	this contract, the Contractor shall submit-</p>
                     <ol id="d3199e78" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e61" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    Proposed prices;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e66" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    A statement	in the format of <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                                    base="i1106753"
                                    outputclass="fm:Table"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">Table  15-2</xref>,	FAR <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                                    base="i1106593"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref>, or in any other	form on which the parties may agree, of all costs incurred in performing	the contract; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e77" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Any other	relevant data that the Contracting Officer may reasonably require.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3233e82" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                If the Contractor	fails to submit the data required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section	within the time specified, the Contracting Officer may suspend payments	under this contract until the data are furnished. If it is later	determined that the Government has overpaid the Contractor, the	excess shall be repaid to the Government immediately. Unless repaid within	30 days after the end of the data submittal period, the amount of	the excess shall bear interest, computed from the date the data	were due to the date of repayment, at the rate established in accordance	with the Interest clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e87" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Price	determination</i>. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the	data required by paragraph (c) of this section, the Contracting	Officer and the Contractor shall promptly negotiate to redetermine	fair and reasonable prices for supplies delivered and services performed	by the Contractor under this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e94" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract	modification</i>. The negotiated redetermination of price shall	be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor	and the Contracting Officer.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e101" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Adjusting	billing prices</i>. Pending execution of the contract modification	(see paragraph (e) of this section), the Contractor shall submit	invoices or vouchers in accordance with billing prices stated in	this contract. If at any time it appears that the then-current billing	prices will be substantially greater than the estimated final prices,	or if the Contractor submits data showing that the redetermined	prices will be substantially greater than the current billing prices,	the parties shall negotiate an appropriate decrease or increase	in billing prices. Any billing price adjustment shall be reflected	in a contract modification and shall not affect the redetermination	of prices under this clause. After the contract modification for	price redetermination is executed, the total amount paid or to be	paid on all invoices or vouchers shall be adjusted to reflect the agreed-upon	prices, and any resulting additional payments, refunds, or credits	shall be made promptly.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e108" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Quarterly	limitation on payments statement</i>. This paragraph (g) shall apply	until final price redetermination under this contract has been completed.</p>
               <ol id="d3199e174" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3233e116" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Within	45 days after the end of the quarter of the Contractor’s fiscal	year in which a delivery is first made (or services are first performed)	and accepted by the Government under this contract, and for each	quarter thereafter, the Contractor shall submit to the contract	administration office (with a copy to the contracting office and	the cognizant contract auditor), a statement, cumulative from the	beginning of the contract, showing-</p>
                     <ol id="d3199e184" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e122" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The total	contract price of all supplies delivered (or services performed)	and accepted by the Government and for which final prices have been	established;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e127" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The total	costs (estimated to the extent necessary) reasonably incurred for,	and properly allocable solely to, the supplies delivered (or services	performed) and accepted by the Government and for which final prices	have not been established;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e132" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    The portion	of the total interim profit (used in establishing the initial contract	price or agreed to for the purpose of this paragraph (g)) that is	in direct proportion to the supplies delivered (or services performed)	and accepted by the Government and for which final prices have not	been established; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3233e137" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    The total	amount of all invoices or vouchers for supplies delivered (or services	performed) and accepted by the Government (including amounts applied	or to be applied to liquidate progress payments).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3233e142" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Notwithstanding	any provision of this contract authorizing greater payments, if	on any quarterly statement the amount under subdivision (g)(1)(iv)	of this section exceeds the sum due the Contractor, as computed	in accordance with subdivisions (g)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this	section, the Contractor shall immediately refund or credit to the	Government the amount of this excess. The Contractor may, when appropriate,	reduce this refund or credit by the amount of any applicable tax	credits due the contractor under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">26 U.S.C.1481</xref> and	by the amount of previous refunds or credits effected under this	clause. If any portion of the excess has been applied to the liquidation	of progress payments, then that portion may, instead of being refunded,	be added to the unliquidated progress payment account, consistent	with the Progress Payments clause. The Contractor shall provide	complete details to support any claimed reduction in refunds.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3233e150" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                If the	Contractor fails to submit the quarterly statement within 45 days	after the end of each quarter and it is later determined that the	Government has overpaid the Contractor, the Contractor shall repay	the excess to the Government immediately. Unless repaid within 30	days after the end of the statement submittal period, the amount	of the excess shall bear interest, computed from the date the quarterly	statement was due to the date of repayment, at the rate established	in accordance with the Interest clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e155" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts</i>.	No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment	on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e162" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Disagreements</i>.	If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon	redetermined prices within 60 days (or within such other period	as the parties agree) after the date on which the data required	by paragraph (c) of this section are to be submitted, the Contracting	Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance with the Disputes	clause. For the purpose of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this	section, and pending final settlement of the disagreement on appeal,	by failure to appeal, or by agreement, this decision shall be treated	as an executed contract modification.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3233e169" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Termination</i>.	If this contract is terminated before price redetermination, prices	shall be established in accordance with this clause for completed	supplies and services not terminated. All other elements of the	termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable	clauses of this contract.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
