<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_225_23"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.225-23</ph> Required Use of American
Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials
under Trade Agreements.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3422e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                     base="i1090904"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1102</xref>(e)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3422e15"
            rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            class="- topic/p "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>Required Use of American Iron, Steel,
and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials
under Trade Agreements (Jan 2021)<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.225-23 by—
a.  Revising the date of the clause;
?></p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3422e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p id="d3422e27" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e40">Component</i> means an
article, material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction
material.</p>
               <p id="d3422e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e46">Construction material</i> means
an article, material, or supply brought to the construction site
by the Contractor or subcontractor for incorporation into the building
or work. The term also includes an item brought to the site preassembled
from articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency lifes
afety systems, such as emergency lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation
systems, that are discrete systems incorporated into a public building
or work and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated
as a single and distinct construction material regardless of when
or how the individual parts or components of those systems are delivered
to the construction site.</p>
               <p id="d3422e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e52">Designated country</i> means
any of the following countries:<ol id="d3382e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e41" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A World Trade
Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country
(Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United Kingdom);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e46" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A Free
Trade Agreement (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman,
Panama, Peru, or Singapore);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e51" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> A least
developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati,
Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique,
Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste,
Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e56" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> A Caribbean
Basin country (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana,
Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or
Trinidad and Tobago).</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3422e60" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d27e61">Designated country construction material</i> means
a construction material that is a WTO GPA country construction material,
an FTA country construction material, a least developed country
construction material, or a Caribbean Basin country construction
material.</p>
               <p id="d3422e64" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d27e65">Domestic
construction material</i> means the following:<ol id="d3382e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e70" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> An unmanufactured
construction material mined or produced in the United States. (The
Buy American statute applies.)</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e75" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A manufactured
construction material that is manufactured in the United States
and, if the construction material consists wholly or predominantly
of iron or steel, the iron or steel was produced in the United States.
(Section 1605 of the Recovery Act applies.)</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3422e79" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e128">Foreign construction material</i> means
a construction material other than a domestic construction material.</p>
               <p id="d3422e83" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e134">Free trade agreement (FTA) country construction
material</i> means a construction material that-<ol id="d3382e130" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e89" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of an FTA country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e94" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in an FTA country into a new and different construction material
distinct from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3422e98" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e161">Least developed country construction material</i> means
a construction material that-<ol id="d3382e154" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e104" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country;
or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e109" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in a least developed country into a new and different construction
material distinct from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3422e113" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e189">Manufactured construction material</i> means
any construction material that is not unmanufactured construction
material.</p>
               <p id="d3422e117" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e195">Nondesignated country</i> means
a country other than the United States or a designated country.</p>
               <p id="d3422e122" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e201">Recovery Act designated country</i> means
any of the following countries:<ol id="d3382e185" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e128" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A World Trade
Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country
(Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United Kingdom);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e133" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A Free
Trade Agreement country (FTA) (Australia, Bahrain, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman,
Panama, Peru, or Singapore); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e138" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> A least
developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati,
Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique,
Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste,
Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia).</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3422e142" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i id="Term" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Recovery Act designated country
construction material</i> means a construction material that is
a WTO GPA country construction material, an FTA country construction
material, or a least developed country construction material.</p>
               <p id="d3422e146" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e243">Steel</i> means an alloy that includes at
least 50 percent iron, between <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>0.02<?FM MARKER [Why] b.  In paragraph (a), in the definition “Steel” removing “.02” and adding “0.02” in its place; and?></ph> and
2 percent carbon, and may include other elements.</p>
               <p id="d3422e155" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e250">United
States</i> means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying
areas.</p>
               <p id="d3422e159" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e256">Unmanufactured construction material</i> means
raw material brought to the construction site for incorporation
into the building or work that has not been-<ol id="d3382e227" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e165" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Processed
into a specific form and shape; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e170" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Combined
with other raw material to create a material that has different
properties than the properties of the individual raw materials.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3422e174" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e283">WTO GPA country construction material</i> means
a construction material that-<ol id="d3382e251" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e180" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3422e185" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part
of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed
in a WTO GPA country into a new and different construction material
distinct from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3422e190" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction
materials.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3382e290" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e197" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The restrictions of section 1605
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5)
(Recovery Act) do not apply to Recovery Act designated country manufactured
construction material. The restrictions of the Buy American statute
do not apply to designated country unmanufactured construction material.
Consistent with U.S. obligations under international agreements,
this clause implements-</p>
                     <ol id="d3382e300" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e203" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Section 1605 of the Recovery Act
by requiring, unless an exception applies, that all manufactured
construction material in the project is manufactured in the United
States and, if the construction material consists wholly or predominantly
of iron or steel, the iron or steel was produced in the United States
(produced in the United States means that all manufacturing processes
of the iron or steel must take place in the United States, except
metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel additives);
and.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e208" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The Buy
American statute by providing a preference for unmanufactured construction
material mined or produced in the United States over unmanufactured
construction material mined or produced in a nondesignated country.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e213" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor
shall use only domestic construction material, Recovery Act designated
country manufactured construction material, or designated country
unmanufactured construction material in performing this contract,
except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e218" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The requirement
in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause does not apply to the construction
materials or components listed by the Government as follows:</p>
                     <p id="d3422e222" class="- topic/p ">
                        <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                              xtrc="52.225-23_d3406e332"
                              class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer to list
applicable excepted materials or indicate "none".</i>]</cite>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e229" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The Contracting
Officer may add other construction material to the list in paragraph
(b)(3) of this clause if the Government determines that-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e235" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The cost
of domestic construction material would be unreasonable;</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e241" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> The cost
of domestic manufactured construction material is unreasonable when
the cumulative cost of such material, when compared to the cost
of comparable foreign manufactured construction material, other
than Recovery Act designated country construction material, will
increase the overall cost of the contract by more than 25 percent;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e246" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> The cost
of domestic unmanufactured construction material is unreasonable
when the cost of such material exceeds the cost of comparable foreign
unmanufactured construction material, other than designated country construction
material, by more than <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>20
percent;<?FM MARKER [Why] c.  Removing from paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) “6 percent” and adding “20 percent” in its place.?></ph>
                                 </p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e255" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The construction
material is not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States
in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities of
a satisfactory quality; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e260" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
application of the restriction of section 1605 of the Recovery Act
to a particular manufactured construction material would be inconsistent
with the public interest or the application of the Buy American
statute to a particular unmanufactured construction material would
be impracticable or inconsistent with the public interest.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3422e265" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Request
for determination of inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery
Act or the Buy American statute</i>.</p>
               <ol id="d3382e366" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e273" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3382e376" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e278" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Any
Contractor request to use foreign construction material in accordance
with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause shall include adequate information
for Government evaluation of the request, including-</p>
                           <ol id="d3382e386" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e284" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> A
description of the foreign and domestic construction materials;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e289" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Unit of
measure;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e294" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> Quantity;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e299" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(D)</ph> Cost;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e304" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(E)</ph> Time of
delivery or availability;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e309" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(F)</ph> Location
of the construction project;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e314" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(G)</ph> Name and
address of the proposed supplier; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3422e319" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(H)</ph> A detailed
justification of the reason for use of foreign construction materials
cited in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e324" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> A request
based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of
the market and a completed cost comparison table in the format in
paragraph (d) of this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e329" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
cost of construction material shall include all delivery costs to
the construction site and any applicable duty.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e334" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Any Contractor
request for a determination submitted after contract award shall
explain why the Contractor could not reasonably foresee the need
for such determination and could not have requested the determination
before contract award. If the Contractor does not submit a satisfactory
explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make a determination.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e339" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If the
Government determines after contract award that an exception to
section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute applies
and the Contracting Officer and the Contractor negotiate adequate
consideration, the Contracting Officer will modify the contract
to allow use of the foreign construction material. However, when
the basis for the exception is the unreasonable cost of a domestic
construction material, adequate consideration is not less than the differential
established in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3422e344" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Unless
the Government determines that an exception to section 1605 of the
Recovery Act or the Buy American statute applies, use of foreign
construction material other than manufactured construction material
from a Recovery Act designated country or unmanufactured construction
material from a designated country is noncompliant with the applicable
statute.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3422e349" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Data</i>.
To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause
based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following
information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey
of suppliers:</p>
               <p id="d3422e355" class="- topic/p ">Foreign (Nondesignated Country)
and Domestic Construction Materials Cost Comparison</p>
               <table frame="none" colsep="0" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table ">
                  <tgroup cols="4"
                          colsep="0"
                          rowsep="0"
                          outputclass="Notitle_norule"
                          class="- topic/tgroup ">
                     <colspec colnum="1"
                              colname="1"
                              colwidth="46*"
                              colsep="0"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colnum="2"
                              colname="2"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              colsep="0"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colnum="3"
                              colname="3"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              colsep="0"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colnum="4"
                              colname="4"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              colsep="0"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Construction
Material Description</entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Unit of Measure</entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Quantity</entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Cost (Dollars)*</entry>
                        </row>
                     </thead>
                     <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Item 1</i>:</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Foreign construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Domestic construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Item 2</i>:</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Foreign construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Domestic construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">________</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry namest="1" nameend="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">List name, address, telephone
number, and contact for suppliers surveyed.</i>
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Attach copy of
response; if oral, attach summary.</i>]</p>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Include other
applicable supporting information</i>.]</p>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">[* <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Include all
delivery costs to the construction site</i>.]</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                     </tbody>
                  </tgroup>
               </table>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3424e492" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">May</i> 2014)</i>. As prescribed in <xref href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                     base="i1090904"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1102</xref>(e), add the following
definition of "Bahrainian, Mexican, or Omani construction material"
to paragraph (a) of the basic clause, and substitute the following
paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of
the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
               <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-23" xtrc="d3417e933">Bahrainian, Mexican,
or Omani construction material</i> means a construction material
that-<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e521" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>Is
wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Bahrain, Mexico, or
Oman; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3422e526" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>In the case of a construction
material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another
country, has been substantially transformed in Bahrain, Mexico,
or Oman into a new and different construction material distinct
from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction materials.</i> (1)
The restrictions of section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) do not apply to Recovery
Act designated country manufactured construction material. The restrictions
of the Buy American statute do not apply to designated country unmanufactured
construction material. Consistent with U.S. obligations under international
agreements, this clause implements-</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(i)
Section 1605 of the Recovery Act, by requiring, unless an exception
applies, that all manufactured construction material in the project
is manufactured in the United States and, if the construction material
consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel, the iron or steel
was produced in the United States (produced in the United States
means that all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must
take place in the United States, except metallurgical processes
involving refinement of steel additives); and</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The Buy American statute by providing
a preference for unmanufactured construction material mined or produced
in the United States over unmanufactured construction material mined
or produced in a nondesignated country.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(2)
The Contractor shall use only domestic construction material, Recovery
Act designated country manufactured construction material, or designated
country unmanufactured construction material, other than Bahrainian,
Mexican, or Omani construction material, in performing this contract,
except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
