<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_211_5"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.211-5</ph> Material Requirements.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3142e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="11.304.dita#FAR_11_304"
                     base="i1114227"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">11.304</xref>
            </ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p " id="d3142e14">Material Requirements <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Aug 2000)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3108e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3142e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.</p>
               <p id="d3142e26" class="- topic/p ">As used in this clause-</p>
               <p id="d3142e28" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.211-5"
                     xtrc="d3139e43"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">New</i> means composed of previously unused components, whether manufactured from virgin material, recovered material in the form of raw material, or materials and by-products generated from, and reused within, an original manufacturing process; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">provided</i> that the supplies meet contract requirements, including but not limited to, performance, reliability, and life expectancy.</p>
               <p id="d3142e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.211-5"
                     xtrc="d3139e52"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reconditioned</i> means restored to the original normal operating condition by readjustments and material replacement.</p>
               <p id="d3142e39" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.211-5"
                     xtrc="d3139e58"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Recovered material</i> means waste materials and by-products recovered or diverted from solid waste, but the term does not include those materials and by-products generated from, and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process.</p>
               <p id="d3142e43" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.211-5"
                     xtrc="d3139e65"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Remanufactured</i> means factory rebuilt to original specifications.</p>
               <p id="d3142e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.211-5"
                     xtrc="d3139e71"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Virgin material</i> means-<ol id="d3108e66" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3142e53" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Previously unused raw material, including previously unused copper, aluminum, lead, zinc, iron, other metal or metal ore; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3142e58" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Any undeveloped resource that is, or with new technology will become, a source of raw materials.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3142e63" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Unless this contract otherwise requires virgin material or supplies composed of or manufactured from virgin material, the Contractor shall provide supplies that are new, reconditioned, or remanufactured, as defined in this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3142e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            A proposal to provide unused former Government surplus property shall include a complete description of the material, the quantity, the name of the Government agency from which acquired, and the date of acquisition.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3142e73" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            A proposal to provide used, reconditioned, or remanufactured supplies shall include a detailed description of such supplies and shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer for approval.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3142e78" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Used, reconditioned, or remanufactured supplies, or unused former Government surplus property, may be used in contract performance if the Contractor has proposed the use of such supplies, and the Contracting Officer has authorized their use.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
