<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_229_14"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.229-14</ph> 
         Taxes—Foreign Contracts
in Afghanistan (North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces
Agreement).</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3487e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="29.402-4.dita#FAR_29_402_4"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">29.402-4</xref>(b)</ph>,
use the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan
(North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement) (Nov
2020)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition</i>. North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Forces, as used in this clause,
means the Members of the Force, Members of the Civilian Component,
NATO Personnel and all property, equipment, and materiel of NATO,
NATO Member States, and Operational Partners present in the territory
of Afghanistan.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Tax exemption</i>. This
acquisition is covered by the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA)
entered into between NATO and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
(Afghanistan) issued on September 30, 2014, and entered into force
on January 1, 2015.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        The
SOFA exempts NATO Forces and its contractors and subcontractors
(other than those that are Afghan legal entities or residents) from
paying any tax or similar charge assessed by the Government of Afghanistan
within Afghanistan if the activities are on behalf of or in support
of NATO Forces. The SOFA also exempts the acquisition, importation,
exportation, reexportation, transportation, and use of supplies
and services in Afghanistan on behalf of or in support of NATO Forces
from all Afghan taxes, customs, duties, fees, or similar charges.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        The Contractor shall exclude
any Afghan taxes, customs, duties, fees or similar charges from
the contract price, other than those charged to Afghan legal entities
or residents.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        Afghan citizens employed
by NATO contractors and subcontractors are subject to Afghan tax
laws. To the extent required by Afghan law, the Contractor shall
withhold tax from the wages of these employees and remit those withholdings
to the appropriate Afghan taxing authority. These withholdings are
an individual's liability, not a tax against the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts</i>. The
Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts including subcontracts for
commercial items.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
