<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_225_9">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.225-9</ph> Buy American-Construction
Materials.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                     base="i1090904"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1102</xref>(a)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3407e15"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>Buy
            American-Construction Materials (Oct
            2022)<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.225-9 by—   a. Revising the date of the clause;?></p>
         <ol id="d3368e25">
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i>Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e25">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d3403e40">Commercially available
                     off-the-shelf (COTS) item</i>—<ol id="d3368e47">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e31">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            Means any item of
                           supply (including construction material) that is–</p>
                        <ol id="d3368e57">
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e37">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                  A commercial
                                 product (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of
                                 “commercial product” at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                                       base="i1125359"
                                       outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref>); </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e45">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                  Sold in
                                 substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e50">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                                  Offered to
                                 the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier,
                                 without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the
                                 commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e55">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            Does not include bulk
                           cargo, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 40102(4), such as agricultural products
                           and petroleum products.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e59">"Construction
material" means an article, material, or supply brought to the construction
site by the Contractor or a subcontractor for incorporation into
the building or work. The term also includes an item brought to
the site preassembled from articles, materials, or supplies. However,
emergency life safety systems, such as emergency lighting, fire
alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are discrete systems incorporated
into a public building or work and that are produced as complete
systems, are evaluated as a single and distinct construction material
regardless of when or how the individual parts or components of
those systems are delivered to the construction site. Materials
purchased directly by the Government are supplies, not construction
material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e61">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d3403e103">Cost of components
                     means</i>—<ol>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e67">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            For components
                           purchased by the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including
                           transportation costs to the place of incorporation into the construction
                           material (whether or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any
                           applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued);
                           or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e72">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            For components
                           manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture
                           of the component, including transportation costs as described in
                           paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs, but
                           excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs
                           associated with the manufacture of the construction material.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e78">
                  <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>
                     <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d1e131">Critical
                        component</i> means a component that is mined, produced, or manufactured in
                     the United States and deemed critical to the U.S. supply chain. The list of
                     critical components is at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for “Critical component” and “Critical item”;?></ph>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e88">
                  <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>
                     <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d1e142">Critical item</i> means a domestic
                     construction material or domestic end product that is deemed critical to U.S.
                     supply chain resiliency. The list of critical items is at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for “Critical component” and “Critical item”;?></ph>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e76">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d3403e130">Domestic construction
                     material</i> means— <ol id="d3368e119">
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e82">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                            For construction
                           material that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
                           or a combination of both-</p>
                        <ol>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e88">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                  An
                                 unmanufactured construction material mined or produced in the
                                 United States; or</p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e93">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                  A construction
                                 material manufactured in the United States, if–</p>
                              <ol>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e99">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>The cost of
                                          its components mined, produced, or manufactured in the
                                          United States exceeds 60 percent of the cost of all its
                                          components, except that the percentage will be 65 percent
                                          for items delivered in calendar years 2024 through 2028
                                          and 75 percent for items delivered starting in calendar
                                          year
                                          2029.<?FM MARKER [Why] c. In the definition “Domestic construction material” revising the first sentence of paragraph (1)(ii)(A);?></ph>
                                       Components of foreign origin of the same class or kind for
                                       which nonavailability determinations have been made are
                                       treated as domestic. Components of unknown origin are treated
                                       as foreign; or</p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e104">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                        The
                                       construction material is a COTS item; or</p>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e109">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                            For construction
                           material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a
                           combination of both, a construction material manufactured in the United
                           States if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than 5
                           percent of the cost of all components used in such construction material.
                           The cost of foreign iron and steel includes but is not limited to the
                           cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab,
                           wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture
                           of the construction material and a good faith estimate of the cost of all
                           foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron or steel
                           components of unknown origin are treated as foreign. If the construction
                           material contains multiple components, the cost of all the materials used
                           in such construction material is calculated in accordance with the
                           definition of "cost of components".</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e113">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d33e125">Fastener</i> means a hardware device that
mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples
of fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e117">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d33e133">Foreign construction material</i> means a
construction material other than a domestic construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e121">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d33e139">Foreign iron and steel</i> means iron or
steel products not produced in the United States. Produced in the
United States means that all manufacturing processes of the iron
or steel must take place in the United States, from the initial
melting stage through the application of coatings, except metallurgical
processes involving refinement of steel additives. The origin of the
elements of the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination
of whether it is domestic or foreign.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e125">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d33e146">Predominantly
of iron or steel or a combination of both</i> means that the cost
of the iron and steel content exceeds 50 percent of the total cost
of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of
the iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire,
plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture
of the product and a good faith estimate of the cost of iron or
steel components excluding COTS fasteners.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e129">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-9" xtrc="d33e152">Steel</i> means
an alloy that includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and
2 percent carbon, and may include other elements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e133">"United
States" means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying
areas.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e136">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Domestic
preference.</p>
               <ol id="d3368e179">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e142">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         This clause implements <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">41 U.S.C.chapter 83</xref>,
Buy American, by providing a preference for domestic construction
material. In accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">41 U.S.C. 1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
construction material that is a COTS item, except that for construction
material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only
to the iron and steel content of the construction materials, excluding
COTS fasteners. (See FAR <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                              base="i1112949"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">12.505</xref>(a)(2)).
The Contractor shall use only domestic construction material in
performing this contract, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)
and (b)(3) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e156">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         This requirement
does not apply to information technology that is a commercial product or
to the construction materials or components listed by the Government
as follows:</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e160">
                        <cite outputclass="MultiLine" xtrc="52.225-9_d3392e208">________________________________________________[<i>Contracting
Officer to list applicable excepted materials or indicate "none"</i>]</cite>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e167">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The Contracting
Officer may add other foreign construction material to the list
in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause if the Government determines
that-</p>
                     <ol id="d3368e235">
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e173">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>The cost of domestic
                                 construction material would be
                                 unreasonable.<?FM MARKER [Why] d. Revising paragraph (b)(3)(i); and?></ph>
                           </p>
                           <ol id="ol_nkc_wz3_bvb">
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e209">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                    <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">
                                       <i>For domestic
                                          construction material that is not a critical item or does
                                          not contain critical components</i>.</ph>
                                 </p>
                                 <ol id="ol_dmt_gbj_bvb">
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e218">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                          <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">The cost of a
                                             particular domestic construction material subject to
                                             the requirements of the Buy American statute is
                                             unreasonable when the cost of such material exceeds the
                                             cost of foreign material by more than 20
                                          percent;</ph>
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e224">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                          <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">For construction
                                             material that is not a COTS item and does not consist
                                             wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a
                                             combination of both, if the cost of a particular
                                             domestic construction material is determined to be
                                             unreasonable or there is no domestic offer received,
                                             and the low offer is for foreign construction material
                                             that is manufactured in the United States and does not
                                             exceed 55 percent domestic content, the Contracting
                                             Officer will treat the lowest offer of foreign
                                             construction material that exceeds 55 percent domestic
                                             content as a domestic offer and determine whether the
                                             cost of that offer is unreasonable by applying the
                                             evaluation factor listed in paragraph
                                                (b)(3)(i)(A)<i>(1)</i> of this clause.</ph>
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e233">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                                          <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">The procedures in
                                             paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A)<i>(2)</i> of this clause will no
                                             longer apply as of January 1, 2030.</ph>
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li props="Runin">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e242">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                    <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">
                                       <i>For domestic
                                          construction material that is a critical item or contains
                                          critical components</i>.</ph>
                                 </p>
                                 <ol id="ol_mgr_jbj_bvb">
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e251">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                          <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">The cost of a
                                             particular domestic construction material that is a
                                             critical item or contains critical components, subject
                                             to the requirements of the Buy American statute, is
                                             unreasonable when the cost of such material exceeds the
                                             cost of foreign material by more than 20 percent plus
                                             the additional preference factor identified for the
                                             critical item or construction material containing
                                             critical components listed at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>.</ph>
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e260">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                          <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">For construction
                                             material that does not consist wholly or predominantly
                                             of iron or steel or a combination of both, if the cost
                                             of a particular domestic construction material is
                                             determined to be unreasonable or there is no domestic
                                             offer received, and the low offer is for foreign
                                             construction material that does not exceed 55 percent
                                             domestic content, the Contracting Officer will treat
                                             the lowest foreign offer of construction material that
                                             is manufactured in the United States and exceeds 55
                                             percent domestic content as a domestic offer, and
                                             determine whether the cost of that offer is
                                             unreasonable by applying the evaluation factor listed
                                             in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B)<i>(1)</i> of this
                                             clause.</ph>
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3408e269">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                                          <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">The procedures in
                                             paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B)<i>(2)</i> of this clause will no
                                             longer apply as of January 1, 2030.</ph>
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e178">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The application
of the restriction of the Buy American statute to a particular construction
material would be impracticable or inconsistent with the public
interest; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e183">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               The
construction material is not mined, produced, or manufactured in
the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial
quantities of a satisfactory quality.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e188">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   Request
for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American statute.</p>
               <ol id="d3368e279">
                  <li props="Runin">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e194">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3368e289">
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e199">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Any Contractor
request to use foreign construction material in accordance with
paragraph (b)(3) of this clause shall include adequate information
for Government evaluation of the request, including-</p>
                           <ol id="d3368e299">
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e205">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                     A
description of the foreign and domestic construction materials;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e210">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                     Unit of
measure;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e215">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>
                                     Quantity;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e220">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(D)</ph>
                                     Price;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e225">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(E)</ph>
                                     Time of
delivery or availability;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e230">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(F)</ph>
                                     Location
of the construction project;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e235">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(G)</ph>
                                     Name and
address of the proposed supplier; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li>
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e240">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(H)</ph>
                                     A detailed
justification of the reason for use of foreign construction materials
cited in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this clause.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e245">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               A request
based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of
the market and a completed price comparison table in the format
in paragraph (d) of this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e250">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               The
price of construction material shall include all delivery costs
to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not
a duty-free certificate may be issued).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e255">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Any Contractor
request for a determination submitted after contract award shall
explain why the Contractor could not reasonably foresee the need
for such determination and could not have requested the determination
before contract award. If the Contractor does not submit a satisfactory
explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make a determination.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e260">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         If the
Government determines after contract award that an exception to
the Buy American statute applies and the Contracting Officer and
the Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the Contracting
Officer will modify the contract to allow use of the foreign construction
material. However, when the basis for the exception is the unreasonable price
of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is not
less than the differential established in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of
this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e265">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Unless
the Government determines that an exception to the Buy American
statute applies, use of foreign construction material is noncompliant
with the Buy American statute.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3407e270">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i>Data</i>.
To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause
based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following
information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey
of suppliers:</p>
               <table frame="none" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <tgroup cols="6" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Notitle_norule">
                     <colspec colnum="1"
                              colname="1"
                              colwidth="15*"
                              colsep="0"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colnum="2"
                              colname="2"
                              colwidth="30*"
                              colsep="0"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colnum="3"
                              colname="3"
                              colwidth="13*"
                              colsep="0"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colnum="4"
                              colname="4"
                              colwidth="15*"
                              colsep="0"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colnum="5"
                              colname="5"
                              colwidth="12*"
                              colsep="0"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <colspec colnum="6"
                              colname="6"
                              colwidth="14*"
                              colsep="0"
                              rowheader="headers"/>
                     <tbody>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr"/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry namest="2"
                                  nameend="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_CtrSmallCaps">
                              <p>Foreign and Domestic
Construction Materials Price Comparison</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="6">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr"/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr"/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_CtrUnderline"
                                  xtrc="Underline">Construction
Material Description</entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_CtrUnderline"
                                  xtrc="Underline">Unit
of Measure</entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_CtrUnderline"
                                  xtrc="Underline">Quantity</entry>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_CtrUnderline"
                                  xtrc="Underline">Price (dollars)*</entry>
                           <entry colname="6">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr"/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2" outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1" xtrc="9pt_Ind1">
                              <p outputclass="List1">Item1:</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2" outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1" xtrc="9pt_Ind1">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Foreign construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2" outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1" xtrc="9pt_Ind1">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Domestic construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2" outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1" xtrc="9pt_Ind1"/>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2" outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1" xtrc="9pt_Ind1">
                              <p outputclass="List1">Item2:</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2" outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1" xtrc="9pt_Ind1">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Foreign construction material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt">_______</entry>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry colname="1"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="2"
                                  rowsep="1"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ind1"
                                  xtrc="9pt_Ind1">
                              <p outputclass="List2">Domestic construction
material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3"
                                  rowsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="4"
                                  rowsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="5"
                                  colsep="1"
                                  rowsep="1"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                           <entry colname="6"
                                  align="center"
                                  outputclass="CellBody_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"/>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0">
                           <entry namest="1" nameend="6">
                              <p>[* <i>Include all delivery
costs to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether
or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued)</i>].</p>
                              <p>[<i>List
name, address, telephone number, and contact for suppliers surveyed.
Attach copy of response; if oral, attach summary.</i>]</p>
                              <p>[<i>Include
other applicable supporting information.</i>]</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                     </tbody>
                  </tgroup>
               </table>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" id="section_unf_52225-9"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d316252225-9" outputclass="List1">
               <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2022-008?>
                  <i>Alternate I</i>
                  <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Oct 2022)</ph>. As prescribed in <xref href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1102</xref>(a)(1)(ii) substitute the following sentence for the first sentence
                  of paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of “domestic end product” in paragraph
                  (a):<?FM MARKER [Why] e. Adding Alternate I to the end of the section.?></ph>
            </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4" id="d3408e512">
               <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">(A) The cost of its
                  components mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds __
                  percent of the cost of all its components. [ <i>Contracting officer to insert the
                     percentage.</i> ]</ph>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
