<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_232_29"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.232-29</ph> 
         Terms for Financing of
Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
      </title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3527e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                     base="i1083258"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.206</xref>(b)(2)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3527e16" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Terms for Financing of Purchases
of Commercial Products and Commercial Services (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol id="d3483e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e19" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor
entitlement to financing payments</i>. The Contractor may request,
and the Government shall pay, a contract financing payment as specified
elsewhere in this contract when: the payment requested is properly
due in accordance with this contract; the supplies deliverable or
services due under the contract will be delivered or performed in
accordance with the contract; and there has been no impairment or
diminution of the Government’s security under this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special
terms regarding termination for cause</i>. If this contract is terminated
for cause, the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government
the amount of unliquidated contract financing payments. The Government
shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Termination
for Cause paragraph of the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref>, Contract Terms
and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e36" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Security
for Government financing</i>. In the event the Contractor fails
to provide adequate security, as required in this contract, no financing
payment shall be made under this contract. Upon receipt of adequate
security, financing payments shall be made, including all previous
payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance with
the terms of the provisions for contract financing. If at any time
the Contracting Officer determines that the security provided by
the Contractor is insufficient, the Contractor shall promptly provide
such additional security as the Contracting Officer determines necessary.
In the event the Contractor fails to provide such additional security,
the Contracting Officer may collect or liquidate such security that
has been provided and suspend further payments to the Contractor;
and the Contractor shall repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated
financing payments as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion
deems repayable.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e43" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Reservation
of rights.</p>
               <ol id="d3483e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3527e49" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> No payment or other action by
the Government under this clause shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d3483e84" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3527e55" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Excuse the
Contractor from performance of obligations under this contract;
or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3527e60" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Constitute
a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the parties under the
contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3527e65" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Government’s
rights and remedies under this clause-</p>
                     <ol id="d3483e114" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3527e71" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Shall not
be exclusive, but rather shall be in addition to any other rights
and remedies provided by law or this contract; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3527e76" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Shall
not be affected by delayed, partial, or omitted exercise of any
right, remedy, power, or privilege, nor shall such exercise or any
single exercise preclude or impair any further exercise under this
clause or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege of
the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e81" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Content
of Contractor's request for financing payment</i>. The Contractor’s
request for financing payment shall contain the following:</p>
               <ol id="d3483e149" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3527e89" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
name and address of the Contractor;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3527e94" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The date
of the request for financing payment;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3527e99" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The contract
number and/or other identifier of the contract or order under which
the request is made; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3527e104" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> An appropriately
itemized and totaled statement of the financing payments requested
and such other information as is necessary for computation of the
payment, prepared in accordance with the direction of the Contracting
Officer.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e109" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Limitation
on frequency of financing payments</i>. Contractor financing payments
shall be provided no more frequently than monthly.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e116" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Dates
for payment</i>. A payment under this clause is a contract financing
payment and not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the
Prompt Payment Act. The designated payment office will pay approved
payment requests within 30 days of submittal of a proper request
for payment.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3527e123" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Conflict
between terms of offeror and clause</i>. In the event of any conflict
between the terms proposed by the offeror in response to an invitation
to propose financing terms (FAR <xref href="52.232-31.dita#FAR_52_232_31"
                        base="i1050574"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.232-31</xref>) and the
terms in this clause, the terms of this clause shall govern.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
