<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_223_14"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.223-14</ph> Acquisition of EPEAT®-Registered Televisions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3384e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="23.705.dita#FAR_23_705"
                     base="i1094423"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">23.705</xref>(c)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p " id="d3384e15">Acquisition of EPEAT®-Registered Televisions <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Jun 2014)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3346e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3384e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Definitions. As used in this clause-</p>
               <p id="d3384e25" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.223-14"
                     xtrc="d3381e37"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Television</i> or "TV" means a commercially available electronic product designed primarily for the reception and display of audiovisual signals received from terrestrial, cable, satellite, Internet Protocol TV (IPTV), or other digital or analog sources. A TV consists of a tuner/receiver and a display encased in a single enclosure. The product usually relies upon a cathode-ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display (LCD), plasma display, or other display technology. Televisions with computer capability (e.g., computer input port) may be considered to be a TV as long as they are marketed and sold to consumers primarily as televisions.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3384e30" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility, only televisions that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award, were EPEAT® bronze-registered or higher.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3384e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            For information about EPEAT®, see <xref href="http://www.epa.gov/epeat/"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.epa.gov/epeat/</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Alternate I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Jun</i> 2014). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="i1094423"
                     href="23.705.dita#FAR_23_705">23.705</xref>(d)(2), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility, only televisions that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award, were EPEAT® silver-registered or gold-registered.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
