<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_216_32"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.216-32</ph> Task-Order and Delivery-Order	Ombudsman.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3259e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed	in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="16.506.dita#FAR_16_506"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">16.506</xref>(j)</ph>,	insert the following clause:</p>
         <p id="id1994EN00RM8" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Task-Order and	Delivery-Order Ombudsman (Sept 2019)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3259e19" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            In	accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2017-title41/html/USCODE-2017-title41-subtitleI-divsnC-chap41-sec4106.htm"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 4106</xref>(g),	the Agency has designated the following task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman	for this contract. The Ombudsman must review complaints from the	Contractor concerning all task-order and delivery-order actions	for this contract and ensure the Contractor is afforded a fair opportunity	for consideration in the award of orders, consistent with the procedures	in the contract.</p>
               <p id="d3259e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                        xtrc="52.216-32_d3248e39"
                        class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer to insert	name, address, telephone number, and email address for the Agency	Ombudsman or provide the URL address where this information may	be found.</i>]</cite>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3259e33" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Consulting	an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timeline for any other	process (e.g., protests).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3259e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Before	consulting with the Ombudsman, the Contractor is encouraged to first	address complaints with the Contracting Officer for resolution.	When requested by the Contractor, the Ombudsman may keep the identity	of the concerned party or entity confidential, unless prohibited	by law or agency procedure.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="id199A9000NEN" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (Sept 2019)</i>.	As prescribed in <xref href="16.506.dita#FAR_16_506"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">16.506</xref>(j), add the following	paragraph (d) to the basic clause.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)	Contracts used by multiple agencies.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)	This is a contract that is used by multiple agencies. Complaints	from Contractors concerning orders placed under contracts used by	multiple agencies are primarily reviewed by the task-order and delivery-order	Ombudsman for the ordering activity.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)	The ordering activity has designated the following task-order and	delivery-order Ombudsman for this order:</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
               <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                     xtrc="52.216-32_d3248e90"
                     class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The	ordering activity's contracting officer to insert the name, address,	telephone number, and email address for the ordering activity's	Ombudsman or provide the URL address where this information may	be found.</i>]</cite>
            </p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Before consulting	with the task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for the ordering	activity, the Contractor is encouraged to first address complaints	with the ordering activity's Contracting Officer for resolution.	When requested by the Contractor, the task-order and delivery-order	Ombudsman for the ordering activity may keep the identity of the concerned	party or entity confidential, unless prohibited by law or agency	procedure.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
