<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_216_3" xtrc="VFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.216-3</ph> Economic Price Adjustment-Semistandard
Supplies.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref href="16.203-4.dita#FAR_16_203_4"
                     base="i1104904"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">16.203-4</xref>(b)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3231e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Economic Price Adjustment-Semistandard
Supplies (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol id="d3196e25">
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The Contractor warrants that the supplies identified as line items <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.216-3_d1e34" xtrf="VFI">____________</cite> [<i>offeror insert Schedule line item number</i>] in the Schedule are, except for modifications required by the contract specifications, supplies for which it has an established price. The term "established price" means a price that (1)is an established catalog or market price for a commercial product sold in substantial quantities to the general public, and (2)is the net price after applying any standard trade discounts offered by the Contractor. The Contractor further warrants that, as of the date of this contract, any difference between the unit prices stated in the contract for these line items and the Contractor’s established prices for like quantities of the nearest commercial equivalents are due to compliance with contract specifications and with any contract requirements for preservation, packaging, and packing beyond standard commercial practice.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e27">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   The Contractor
shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the amount and
effective date of each decrease in any applicable established price.
Each corresponding contract unit price (exclusive of any part of
the unit price that reflects modifications resulting from compliance
with specifications or with requirements for preservation, packaging,
and packing beyond standard commercial practice) shall be decreased
by the same percentage that the established price is decreased. The
decrease shall apply to those items delivered on and after the effective
date of the decrease in the Contractor’s established price, and
this contract shall be modified accordingly.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   If the
Contractor’s applicable established price is increased after the
contract date, the corresponding contract unit price (exclusive
of any part of the unit price resulting from compliance with specifications
or with requirements for preservation, packaging, and packing beyond
standard commercial practice) shall be increased, upon the Contractor’s
written request to the Contracting Officer, by the same percentage
that the established price is increased, and the contract shall be
modified accordingly, subject to the following limitations:</p>
               <ol id="d3196e56">
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The
aggregate of the increases in any contract unit price under this
clause shall not exceed 10 percent of the original contract unit
price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e43">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The increased
contract unit price shall be effective-</p>
                     <ol id="d3196e75">
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e49">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               On the effective
date of the increase in the applicable established price if the
Contracting Officer receives the Contractor’s written request within
10 days thereafter; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e54">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               If the
written request is received later, on the date the Contracting Officer
receives the request.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e59">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The increased
contract unit price shall not apply to quantities scheduled under
the contract for delivery before the effective date of the increased
contract unit price, unless failure to deliver before that date
results from causes beyond the control and without the fault or
negligence of the Contractor, within the meaning of the Default
clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e64">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         No modification
increasing a contract unit price shall be executed under this paragraph
(c) until the Contracting Officer verifies the increase in the applicable
established price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e69">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         Within
30 days after receipt of the Contractor’s written request, the Contracting
Officer may cancel, without liability to either party, any undelivered
portion of the contract items affected by the requested increase.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3231e74">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   During
the time allowed for the cancellation provided for in paragraph
(c)(5) of this clause, and thereafter if there is no cancellation,
the Contractor shall continue deliveries according to the contract
delivery schedule, and the Government shall pay for such deliveries
at the contract unit price, increased to the extent provided by
paragraph (c) of this clause.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
