<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_211_7" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.211-7</ph> Alternatives to Government-Unique Standards.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3145e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="11.107.dita#FAR_11_107"
                     base="i1114514"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">11.107</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3145e15">Alternatives to Government-Unique Standards <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Nov 1999)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3110e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3145e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            This solicitation includes Government-unique standards. The offeror may propose voluntary consensus standards that meet the Government’s requirements as alternatives to the Government-unique standards. The Government will accept use of the voluntary consensus standard instead of the Government-unique standard if it meets the Government’s requirements unless inconsistent with law or otherwise impractical.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3145e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            If an alternative standard is proposed, the offeror must furnish data and/or information regarding the alternative in sufficient detail for the Government to determine if it meets the Government’s requirements. Acceptance of the alternative standard is a unilateral decision made solely at the discretion of the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3145e31">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Offers that do not comply with the Government-unique standards specified in this solicitation may be determined to be nonresponsive or unacceptable. The offeror may submit an offer that complies with the Government-unique standards specified in this solicitation, in addition to any proposed alternative standard(s).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
