<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_229_13" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.229-13</ph> Taxes—Foreign Contracts
in Afghanistan.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="29.402-4.dita#FAR_29_402_4"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">29.402-4</xref>(a)</ph>,
use the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3487e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition.
U.S. Forces</i>, as used in this clause, means the entity comprising
the members of the force and of the civilian component, and all
property, equipment, and materiel of the United States Armed Forces
present in the territory of Afghanistan.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Tax exemption.</i> This
acquisition is covered by the Security and Defense Cooperation Agreement
(the Agreement) between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (Afghanistan)
and the United States of America signed on September 30, 2014, and
entered into force on January 1, 2015.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Agreement exempts the United
States Government, and its contractors and subcontractors (other
than those that are Afghan legal entities or residents), from paying
any tax or similar charge assessed by the Government of Afghanistan
on activities associated with this contract within Afghanistan if
the activities are on behalf of or in support of U.S. Forces. The
Agreement also exempts the acquisition, importation, exportation,
reexportation, transportation, and use of supplies and services
in Afghanistan, on behalf of or in support of U.S. Forces, from
any taxes, customs, duties, fees, or similar charges imposed by
the Government of Afghanistan.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor
shall exclude any Afghan taxes, customs, duties, fees, or similar
charges from the contract price, other than those charged to Afghan
legal entities or residents.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The Agreement
does not exempt Afghan employees of Government contractors and subcontractors
from Afghan tax laws. To the extent required by Afghan law, the
Contractor shall withhold tax from the wages of these employees and
remit those payments to the appropriate Afghan taxing authority.
These withholdings are an individual's liability, not a tax against
the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3487e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Subcontracts.
The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts including
subcontracts for commercial
products or commercial services.
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
