<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="FAR_52_243_4" xtrc=" Editable" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "> <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.243-4</ph> Changes.</title><conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p id="d3630e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in 43.305(d), insert the following clause. Agency procedures may vary the 30-day period.</p><p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Changes (Deviation Date)</p><ol id="d3587e25" class="- topic/ol "><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3630e19" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3587e35" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3630e25" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> At any time, the Contracting Officer may issue a written order, identified as a change order, to make changes in the work within the scope of the contract, including changes—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> In the specifications (including drawings and designs);</p>
                        </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> In the method or manner of performance of the work;</p>
                        </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> In the Government-furnished property or services; or</p>
                        </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Directing acceleration in the performance of the work.</p>
                        </li></ol>
                  </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3630e30" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If there are any sureties, the Contracting Officer does not need to notify them of a written order.</p>
                  </li></ol>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3630e45" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Any other written or oral order (which, as used in this paragraph (b), includes direction, instruction, interpretation, or determination) from the Contracting Officer that causes a change shall be treated as a change order under this clause; provided, that the Contractor gives the Contracting Officer written notice stating—</p>
               <ol id="d3587e83" class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3630e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The date, circumstances, and source of the order; and</p>
                  </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3630e56" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         That the Contractor regards the order as a change order.</p>
                  </li></ol>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3630e61" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   Except as provided in this clause, no order, statement, or conduct of the Contracting Officer shall be treated as a change under this clause or entitle the Contractor to an equitable adjustment.</p>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3630e66" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>  If any change under this clause causes an increase or decrease in the Contractor's cost of, or the time required for, the performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by any such order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment and modify the contract in writing. However, except for an adjustment based on defective specifications, no adjustment for any change under paragraph (b) of this clause shall be made for any costs incurred more than 20 days before the Contractor gives written notice as required. In the case of defective specifications for which the Government is responsible, the equitable adjustment shall include any increased cost reasonably incurred by the Contractor in attempting to comply with the defective specifications.</p>
            </li><li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3630e71" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause, by submitting to the Contracting Officer a written statement describing the general nature and amount of proposal within 30 days, unless this period is extended by the Government, after—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol "><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Receipt of a written change order under paragraph (a) of this clause; or</p>
                        </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The furnishing of a written notice under paragraph (b) of this clause.</p>
                        </li></ol>
                  </li><li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The statement of proposal for adjustment may be included in the notice under paragraph (b) of this clause.</p>
                  </li></ol>
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3630e76" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> No proposal by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment shall be allowed if asserted after final payment under this contract.</p>
            </li></ol><p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p></conbody></concept></dita>