<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_225_1"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.225-1</ph> Buy American-Supplies</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="25.1101.dita#FAR_25_1101"
                     base="i1090819"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1101</xref>(a)(1)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3399e15"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            class="- topic/p "
            rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>Buy
            American-Supplies (Oct
            2022)<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.225-1 by—   a. Revising the date of the clause;?></p>
         <ol id="d3360e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e25">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e40">Commercially available
off-the-shelf (COTS) item</i>—<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e31">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Means any item of supply (including
construction material) that is–</p>
                        <ol id="d3360e57" class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e37">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 A commercial product (as
defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of “commercial product”
at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                                       base="i1125359"
                                       outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                       class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>);
                              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e45">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Sold in
substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e50">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Offered
to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier,
without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the
commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e55">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Does not
include bulk cargo, as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">46 U.S.C.40102(4)</xref>,
such as agricultural products and petroleum products.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e62">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e103">Component</i> means an article, material,
or supply incorporated directly into an end product.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e66">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e109">Cost of components</i> means—<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e72">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> For components
purchased by the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including transportation
costs to the place of incorporation into the end product (whether
or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any applicable
duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e77">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For components
manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture
of the component, including transportation costs as described in
paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs,
but excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs
associated with the manufacture of the end product.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3400e83">
                  <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>
                     <i outputclass="Term">Critical
                        component</i> means a component that is mined, produced, or manufactured in
                     the United States and deemed critical to the U.S. supply chain. The list of
                     critical components is at FAR <xref href="25.105.dita#FAR_25_105" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.105</xref>
                     <?FM MARKER [Why] b. Adding in alphabetical order a definition for “Critical component” in paragraph (a); ?>.</ph>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e81">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e136">Domestic end product</i> means— <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e87">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> For an end
product that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or
steel or a combination of both-</p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e93">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> An unmanufactured end product
mined or produced in the United States;</p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e98">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> An end
product manufactured in the United States, if-</p>
                              <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                 <li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e104">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2021-008?>The cost of
                                          its components mined, produced, or manufactured in the
                                          United States exceeds 60 percent of the cost of all its
                                          components, except that the percentage will be 65 percent
                                          for items delivered in calendar years 2024 through 2028
                                          and 75 percent for items delivered starting in calendar
                                          year
                                          2029.<?FM MARKER [Why] c. In paragraph (a), in the definition of “Domestic end product” revising the first sentence of paragraph (1)(ii)(A); and?></ph>
                                       Components of foreign origin of the same class or kind as
                                       those that the agency determines are not mined, produced, or
                                       manufactured in sufficient and reasonably available
                                       commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality are treated
                                       as domestic. Components of unknown origin are treated as
                                       foreign. Scrap generated, collected, and prepared for
                                       processing in the United States is considered domestic;
                                       or</p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e109">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> The end
product is a COTS item; or</p>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e114">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For an
end product that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
or a combination of both, an end product manufactured in the United
States, if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than
5 percent of the cost of all the components used in the end product.
The cost of foreign iron and steel includes but is not limited to
the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet,
slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in
the manufacture of the end product and a good faith estimate of
the cost of all foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS
fasteners. Iron or steel components of unknown origin are treated
as foreign. If the end product contains multiple components, the
cost of all the materials used in such end product is calculated
in accordance with the definition of "cost of components".</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e118">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e181">End product</i> means those articles, materials,
and supplies to be acquired under the contract for public use.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e122">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d31e134">Fastener</i> means a hardware device that
mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples
of fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e126">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e187">Foreign end product</i> means an end product
other than a domestic end product.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e130">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d31e146">Foreign
iron and steel</i> means iron or steel products not produced in
the United States. Produced in the United States means that all
manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must take place in
the United States, from the initial melting stage through the application
of coatings, except metallurgical processes involving refinement
of steel additives. The origin of the elements of the iron or steel
is not relevant to the determination of whether it is domestic or
foreign.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e134">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d31e152">Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both</i> means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds
50 percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of
iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products (such
as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings
utilized in the manufacture of the product and a good faith estimate of
the cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e138">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d31e158">Steel</i> means an alloy that includes at
least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and may
include other elements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e143">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-1" xtrc="d3395e193">United States</i> means
the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e148">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 83</xref>,
Buy American, provides a preference for domestic end products for
supplies acquired for use in the United States. In accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
an end product that is a COTS item (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                        base="i1112949"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">12.505</xref>(a)(1)), except
that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of
iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test
is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product,
excluding COTS fasteners.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e161">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Offerors
may obtain from the Contracting Officer a list of foreign articles
that the Contracting Officer will treat as domestic for this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3399e166">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The Contractor
shall deliver only domestic end products except to the extent that
it specified delivery of foreign end products in the provision of
the solicitation entitled "Buy American Certificate."</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" id="section_unf_52225-1"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3162e1676" outputclass="List1">
               <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2022-008?>
                  <i>Alternate I</i>
                  <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Oct 2022)</ph>. As prescribed in <xref href="25.1101.dita#FAR_25_1101" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">25.1101</xref>(a)(1)(ii) substitute the following sentence for the first sentence
                  of paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of “domestic end product” in paragraph
                  (a):<?FM MARKER [Why] d. Adding Alternate I to the end of the section.?></ph>
            </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List4" id="d3400e202">
               <ph rev="FAC 2022-05 October 25, 2022">(A) The cost of its
                  components mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds __
                  percent of the cost of all its components. [ <i>Contracting officer to insert the
                     percentage.</i> ]</ph>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
