<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_232_30" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.232-30</ph> 
         Installment Payments for
Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
      </title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                     base="i1083258"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">32.206</xref>(g)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3528e16" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Installment Payments for Commercial
Products and Commercial Services (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol id="d3484e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor
entitlement to financing payments</i>. The Contractor may request,
and the Government shall pay, a contract financing installment payment
as specified in this contract when: the payment requested is properly
due in accordance with this contract; the supplies deliverable or
services due under the contract will be delivered or performed in
accordance with the contract; and there has been no impairment or
diminution of the Government’s security under this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computation
of amounts</i>. Installment payment financing shall be paid to the
Contractor when requested for each separately priced unit of supply
(but not for services) of each line item in amounts approved by
the Contracting Officer pursuant to this clause.</p>
               <ol id="d3484e50" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Number
of installment payments for each line item</i>. Each separately
priced unit of each line item is authorized a fixed number of monthly
installment payments. The number of installment payments authorized
for each unit of a line item is equal to the number of months from
the date of contract award to the date onemonth before the first
delivery of the first separately priced unit of the line item. For
example, if the first scheduled delivery of any separately priced unit
of a line item is 9 months after award of the contract, all separately
priced units of that line item are authorized 8 installment payments.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Amount
of each installment payment</i>. The amount of each installment
payment for each separately priced unit of each line item is equal
to 70 percent of the unit price divided by the number of installment
payments authorized for that unit.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Date
of each installment payment.</i> Installment payments for any particular
separately priced unit of a line item begin the number of months
prior to the delivery of that unit that are equal to the number
of installment payments authorized for that unit. For example, if
8 installment payments are authorized for each separately priced
unit of a line item, the first installment payment for any particular
unit of that line item would be 8 months before the scheduled delivery
date for that unit. The last installment payment would be 1 month
before scheduled delivery of a unit.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e55">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Limitation
on payment</i>. Prior to the delivery payment for a separately priced
unit of a line item, the sum of all installment payments for that
unit shall not exceed 70 percent of the price of that unit.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor
request for installment payment</i>. The Contractor may submit requests
for payment of installment payments not more frequently than monthly,
in a form and manner acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Unless
otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all installment
payments in any month for which payment is being requested shall
be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e69">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Dates
for payment</i>. An installment payment under this clause is a contract
financing payment under the Prompt Payment clause of this contract,
and except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, approved
requests shall be paid within 30 days of submittal of a proper request
for payment.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e76">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Liquidation
of installment payments</i>. Installment payments shall be liquidated
by deducting from the delivery payment of each item the total unliquidated
amount of installment payments made for that separately priced unit
of that line item. The liquidation amounts for each unit of each
line item shall be clearly delineated in each request for delivery
payment submitted by the Contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e83">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Security
for installment payment financing</i>. In the event the Contractor
fails to provide adequate security as required in this contract,
no financing payment shall be made under this contract. Upon receipt
of adequate security, financing payments shall be made, including
all previous payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance
with the terms of the contract. If at any time the Contracting Officer
determines that the security provided by the Contractor is insufficient, the
Contractor shall promptly provide such additional security as the
Contracting Officer determines necessary. In the event the Contractor
fails to provide such additional security, the Contracting Officer
may collect or liquidate such security that has been provided, and
suspend further payments to the Contractor; the Contractor shall
repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated financing payments
as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion deems repayable.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e90">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special
terms regarding termination for cause</i>. If this contract is terminated
for cause, the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government
the amount of unliquidated installment payments. The Government
shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Termination
for Cause paragraph of the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref>, Contract Terms
and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e100">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph> Reservation
of rights.</p>
               <ol id="d3484e174" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e106">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> No payment, vesting of title under
this clause, or other action taken by the Government under this
clause shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d3484e184" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e112">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Excuse the Contractor from performance
of obligations under this contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e117">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Constitute
a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the parties under the
contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e122">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Government’s
rights and remedies under this clause-</p>
                     <ol id="d3484e214" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e128">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Shall not
be exclusive, but rather shall be in addition to any other rights
and remedies provided by law or this contract; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e133">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Shall
not be affected by delayed, partial, or omitted exercise of any
right, remedy, power, or privilege, nor shall such exercise or any
single exercise preclude or impair any further exercise under this
clause or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege of
the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e138">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Content
of Contractor's request for installment payment</i>. The Contractor’s
request for installment payment shall contain the following:</p>
               <ol id="d3484e249" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e146">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
name and address of the Contractor;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e151">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The date
of the request for installment payment;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e156">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The contract
number and/or other identifier of the contract or order under which
the request is made; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3528e161">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> An itemized
and totaled statement of the items, installment payment amount,
and month for which payment is being requested, for each separately
priced unit of each line item.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
