<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_225_3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.225-3</ph> Buy American-Free
Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3402e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="25.1101.dita#FAR_25_1101"
                     base="i1090819"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1101</xref>
            </ph>(b)(1)(i),
insert the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3402e14"
            rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            class="- topic/p "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli
Trade Act (Jan 2021)<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.225-3 by—
a.  Revising the date of the clause;
?></p>
         <ol id="d3362e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3402e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p id="d3402e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e40">Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani,
Panamanian, or Peruvian end product</i> means an article that—<ol id="d3362e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e32" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is
wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Bahrain, Morocco,
Oman, Panama, or Peru; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e37" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in Bahrain,
Morocco, Oman, Panama, or Peru into a new and different article
of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of
the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term
refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract,
but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product includes
services (except transportation services) incidental to the article,
provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed
that of the article itself.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e67">Commercially
available off-the-shelf (COTS) item</i>—<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e47" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Means any item of supply (including
construction material) that is-</p>
                        <ol id="d3362e84" class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3402e53" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> A commercial
item (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition at <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR)<?FM MARKER [Why] b.  In paragraph (a):
i.  Removing from paragraph (1)(i) in the definition “Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “FAR” and adding “Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)” in its place;?></ph> 
                                 <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                                       base="i1125359"
                                       outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                       class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>);</p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3402e65" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Sold in
substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3402e70" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Offered
to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier,
without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the
commercial marketplace; and</p>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e75" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Does not
include bulk cargo, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 40102(4), such as agricultural
products and petroleum products.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e79" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e127">Component</i> means
an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into an end
product.</p>
               <p id="d3402e83" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e133">Cost of components</i> means—<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e89" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> For components
purchased by the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including transportation
costs to the place of incorporation into the end product (whether
or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any applicable
duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e94" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For components
manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture
of the component, including transportation costs as described in
paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs,
but excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs
associated with the manufacture of the end product.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e98" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e161">Domestic end product</i> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>means—<?FM MARKER [Why] ii.  Revising the definition “Domestic end product”; and?></ph> 
                  <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e107" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                           <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">For an end product that
does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both–</ph>
                        </p>
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3402e114" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                                 <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">An unmanufactured end product
mined or produced in the United States;</ph>
                              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3402e120" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                                 <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">An end product manufactured
in the United States, if—</ph>
                              </p>
                              <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                 <li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p id="d3402e127" class="- topic/p ">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                       <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">The cost of its components
mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 55
percent of the cost of all its components. Components of foreign
origin of the same class or kind as those that the agency determines
are not mined, produced, or manufactured in sufficient and reasonably
available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality are treated
as domestic. Components of unknown origin are treated as foreign. Scrap
generated, collected, and prepared for processing in the United
States is considered domestic; or</ph>
                                    </p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li class="- topic/li ">
                                    <p id="d3402e133" class="- topic/p ">
                                       <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                       <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">The end product is a COTS
item; or</ph>
                                    </p>
                                 </li>
                              </ol>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e139" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                           <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">For an end product that
consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both, an end product manufactured in the United States, if the
cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than 5 percent of
the cost of all the components used in the end product. The cost
of foreign iron and steel includes but is not limited to the cost
of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab,
wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture
of the end product and a good faith estimate of the cost of all
foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron
or steel components of unknown origin are treated as foreign. If
the end product contains multiple components, the cost of all the
materials used in such end product is calculated in accordance with
the definition of "cost of components".</ph>
                        </p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e144" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e209">End product</i> means those articles, materials,
and supplies to be acquired under the contract for public use.</p>
               <p id="d3402e148" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d7e152">Fastener</i> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>means a hardware device
that mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together.
Examples of fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips,
and screws.<?FM MARKER [Why] iii.  Adding in alphabetical order the definitions “Fastener” “Foreign iron and steel” “Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both” and “Steel”;?></ph>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e155" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e215">Foreign end product</i> means
an end product other than a domestic end product.</p>
               <p id="d3402e159" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d7e164">Foreign
iron and steel</i> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">means
iron or steel products not produced in the United States. Produced
in the United States means that all manufacturing processes of the
iron or steel must take place in the United States, from the initial
melting stage through the application of coatings, except metallurgical
processes involving refinement of steel additives. The origin of the
elements of the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination
of whether it is domestic or foreign.</ph>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e164" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e221">Free
Trade Agreement country</i> means Australia, Bahrain, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman,
Panama, Peru, or Singapore.</p>
               <p id="d3402e169" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e227">Free
Trade Agreement country end product</i> means an article that-<ol id="d3362e206" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e175" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is
wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement
country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e180" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in a Free
Trade Agreement country into a new and different article of commerce
with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article
or articles from which it was transformed. The term refers to a
product offered for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes
of calculating the value of the end product includes services (except
transportation services) incidental to the article, provided that
the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the
article itself.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e184" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e254">Israeli
end product</i> means an article that—<ol id="d3362e231" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e190" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of Israel; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3402e195" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in Israel
into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character,
or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which
it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e199" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d7e205">Predominantly
of iron or steel or a combination of both</i> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">means that the cost of
the iron and steel content exceeds 50 percent of the total cost
of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of
the iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire,
plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture
of the product and a good faith estimate of the cost of iron or
steel components excluding COTS fasteners.</ph>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e204" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d7e211">Steel</i> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">means an alloy that includes
at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and
may include other elements.</ph>
               </p>
               <p id="d3402e209" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e282">United
States</i> means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying
areas.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3402e214" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Components
of foreign origin</i>. Offerors may obtain from the Contracting
Officer a list of foreign articles that the Contracting Officer
will treat as domestic for this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3402e221" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Delivery
of end products</i>. <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.chapter 83</xref>,
Buy American statute, provides a preference for domestic end products for
supplies acquired for use in the United States. <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>In accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
an end product that is a COTS item (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                           base="i1112949"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">12.505</xref>(a)(1)), except
that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of
iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test
is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product,
excluding COTS fasteners.<?FM MARKER [Why] c.  Revising the second sentence of paragraph (c);?></ph> Unless otherwise specified, these
trade agreements apply to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor
shall deliver under this contract only domestic end products except
to the extent that, in its offer, it specified delivery of foreign
end products in the provision entitled "Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli
Trade Act Certificate." If the Contractor specified in its offer
that the Contractor would supply a Free Trade Agreement country
end product (other than a Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian,
or Peruvian end product) or an Israeli end product, then the Contractor
shall supply a Free Trade Agreement country end product (other than
a Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product),
an Israeli end product or, at the Contractor’s option, a domestic
end product.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?> 
            <p id="d3402e245" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I</i> 
               <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>(<ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">Jan</ph> 2021)<?FM MARKER [Why] d.  Revising the date in the introductory text and the second sentence of paragraph (c) of Alternate I;?></ph>. As prescribed in <xref href="25.1101.dita#FAR_25_1101"
                     base="i1090819"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1101</xref>(b)(1)(ii), add
the following definition to paragraph (a) of the basic clause, and
substitute the following paragraph (c) for paragraph (c) of the
basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e341">Canadian end product</i> means an article
that-</p>
            <p id="d3402e212" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of Canada; or</p>
            <p id="d3402e215" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) In the case of an article that consists
in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in Canada into a new and different article
of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of
the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term
refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract,
but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product includes
services (except transportation services) incidental to the article,
provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed
that of the article itself.</p>
            <p id="d3402e267" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Delivery
of end products</i>. <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.chapter 83</xref> provides
a preference for domestic end products for supplies acquired for use
in the United States. <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">In
accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
an end product that is a COTS item (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                        base="i1112949"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">12.505</xref>(a)(1)), except
that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of
iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test
is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product,
excluding COTS fasteners.</ph> In addition, the Contracting Officer
has determined that NAFTA applies to this acquisition. Unless otherwise
specified, NAFTA applies to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor
shall deliver under this contract only domestic end products except
to the extent that, in its offer, it specified delivery of foreign
end products in the provision entitled "Buy American-Free Trade
Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate." If the Contractor specified
in its offer that the Contractor would supply a Canadian end product,
then the Contractor shall supply a Canadian end product or, at the
Contractor's option, a domestic end product.</p> 
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3402e286" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
II</i> 
               <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>(<ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">Jan</ph> 2021)<?FM MARKER [Why] e.  Revising the date in the introductory text and the second sentence of paragraph (c) of Alternate II and adding a period to the end of paragraph (c); and?></ph>. As prescribed in <xref href="25.1101.dita#FAR_25_1101"
                     base="i1090819"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1101</xref>(b)(1)(iii), add
the following definition to paragraph (a) of the basic clause, and
substitute the following paragraph (c) for paragraph (c) of the
basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e400">Canadian end product</i> means an article
that-<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3402e308" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>Is wholly the growth, product,
or manufacture of Canada; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3402e313" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>In
the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in Canada
into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character,
or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which
it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered for purchase
under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating the value
of the end product includes services (except transportation services) incidental
to the article, provided that the value of those incidental services
does not exceed that of the article itself.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </p>
            <p id="d3402e317" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Delivery of end
products</i>. <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.chapter 83</xref> provides
a preference for domestic end products for supplies acquired for use
in the United States. <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">In
accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
an end product that is a COTS item (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                        base="i1112949"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">12.505</xref>(a)(1)), except
that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of
iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test
is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product,
excluding COTS fasteners.</ph> In addition, the Contracting Officer
has determined that NAFTA and the Israeli Trade Act apply to this
acquisition. Unless otherwise specified, these trade agreements
apply to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor shall deliver
under this contract only domestic end products except to the extent
that, in its offer, it specified delivery of foreign end products
in the provision entitled "Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade
Act." If the Contractor specified in its offer that the Contractor
would supply a Canadian end product or an Israeli end product, then
the Contractor shall supply a Canadian end product, an Israeli end
product or, at the Contractor's option, a domestic end product</p>. <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?><p id="d3402e338" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III</i> 
               <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-016?>(<ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">Jan</ph> 2021)<?FM MARKER [Why] f.  Revising the date in the introductory text and the second sentence of paragraph (c) of Alternate III.?></ph>.
As prescribed in <xref href="25.1101.dita#FAR_25_1101"
                     base="i1090819"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1101</xref>(b)(1)(iv),
delete the definition of "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian,
or Peruvian end product" and add in its place the following definition
of "Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian
end product" in paragraph (a) of the basic clause; and substitute
the following paragraph (c) for paragraph (c) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.225-3" xtrc="d3397e459">Bahrainian,
Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product</i> means
an article that-</p>
            <p id="d3402e291" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)
Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Bahrain, Korea
(Republic of), Morocco, Oman, Panama, or Peru; or</p>
            <p id="d3402e294" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) In the case of an article that consists
in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in Bahrain, Korea (Republic of), Morocco,
Oman, Panama, or Peru into a new and different article of commerce with
a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered
for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating
the value of the end product includes services (except transportation
services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of
those incidental services does not exceed that of the article itself.</p>
            <p id="d3402e360" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Delivery of end
products</i>. <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.chapter 83</xref> provides
a preference for domestic end products for supplies acquired for use
in the United States. <ph rev="FAC 2021-04 January 19, 2021" class="- topic/ph ">In
accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.1907</xref>, the
domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
an end product that is a COTS item (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                        base="i1112949"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">12.505</xref>(a)(1)), except
that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of
iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test
is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product,
excluding COTS fasteners.</ph> In addition, the Contracting Officer
has determined that FTAs (except the Bahrain, Korea (Republic of),
Morocco, Oman, Panama, and Peru FTAs) and the Israeli Trade Act
apply to this acquisition. Unless otherwise specified, these trade
agreements apply to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor shall
deliver under this contract only domestic end products except to
the extent that, in its offer, it specified delivery of foreign
end products in the provision entitled "Buy American-Free Trade
Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate." If the Contractor specified
in its offer that the Contractor would supply a Free Trade Agreement
country end product (other than a Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan,
Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product) or an Israeli end product,
then the Contractor shall supply a Free Trade Agreement country
end product (other than a Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian,
or Peruvian end product), an Israeli end product or, at the Contractor’s
option, a domestic end product.</p> 
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
