<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_52_227_15"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.227-15</ph> Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3446e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="27.409.dita#FAR_27_409"
                     base="i1089472"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">27.409</xref>(c)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p " id="d3446e15">Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Dec 2007)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3408e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3446e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            This solicitation sets forth the Government’s known delivery requirements for data (as defined in the clause at <xref href="52.227-14.dita#FAR_52_227_14"
                        base="i1052520"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref>, Rights in Data-General). Any resulting contract may also provide the Government the option to order additional data under the Additional Data Requirements clause at <xref href="52.227-16.dita#FAR_52_227_16"
                        base="i1052670"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-16</xref>, if included in the contract. Any data delivered under the resulting contract will be subject to the Rights in Data-General clause at <xref href="52.227-14.dita#FAR_52_227_14"
                        base="i1052520"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref> included in this contract. Under the latter clause, a Contractor may withhold from delivery data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software, and deliver form, fit, and function data instead. The latter clause also may be used with its Alternates II and/or III to obtain delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software, marked with limited rights or restricted rights notices, as appropriate. In addition, use of Alternate V with this latter clause provides the Government the right to inspect such data at the Contractor’s facility.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3446e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            By completing the remainder of this paragraph, the offeror represents that it has reviewed the requirements for the delivery of technical data or computer software and states [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">offeror check appropriate block</i>]-</p>
               <p id="d3446e42" class="- topic/p ">
                  <cite outputclass="Checkbox"
                        xtrc="52.227-15_d45e41"
                        class="- topic/cite ">□</cite> None of the data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualifies as limited rights data or restricted computer software; or</p>
               <p id="d3446e46" class="- topic/p ">
                  <cite outputclass="Checkbox"
                        xtrc="52.227-15_d45e45"
                        class="- topic/cite ">□</cite> Data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software and are identified as follows:</p>
               <p id="d3446e50" class="- topic/p ">_____________</p>
               <p id="d3446e52" class="- topic/p ">_____________</p>
               <p id="d3446e54" class="- topic/p ">_____________</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3446e57" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Any identification of limited rights data or restricted computer software in the offeror’s response is not determinative of the status of the data should a contract be awarded to the offeror.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
