<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_52_234_2"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.234-2</ph> Notice of Earned Value Management System-Preaward Integrated Baseline Review.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3545e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="34.203.dita#FAR_34_203"
                     base="i1079929"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">34.203</xref>
            </ph>(a) use the following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p " id="d3545e14">Notice of Earned Value Management System-Preaward Integrated Baseline Review. <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Nov 2016)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3502e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3545e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The offeror shall provide documentation that the Cognizant Federal Agency has determined that the proposed earned value management system (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748(EIA-748) (current version at time of solicitation).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3545e25" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the EVMS guidelines.</p>
               <ol id="d3502e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3545e31" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The plan shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d3502e54" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3545e37" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    (i) Describe the EVMS the offeror intends to use in performance of the contracts;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3545e42" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    Distinguish between the offeror’s existing management system and modifications proposed to meet the guidelines;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3545e47" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    (iii) Describe the management system and its application in terms of the EVMS guidelines;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3545e52" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    (iv) Describe the proposed procedure for administration of the guidelines, as applied to subcontractors; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3545e57" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
										                    (v) Provide documentation describing the process and results of any third-party or self-evaluation of the system’s compliance with the EVMS guidelines.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3545e62" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The offeror shall provide information and assistance as required by the Contracting Officer to support review of the plan.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3545e67" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The Government will review and approve the offeror’s plan for an EVMS before contract award.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3545e72" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                The offeror’s EVMS plan must provide milestones that indicate when the offeror anticipates that the EVM system will be compliant with the EIA-748 guidelines.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3545e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Offerors shall identify the major subcontractors, or major subcontracted effort if major subcontractors have not been selected subject to the guidelines. The prime Contractor and the Government shall agree to subcontractors selected for application of the EVMS guidelines.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3545e82" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR), as designated by the agency, prior to contract award. The objective of the IBR is for the Government and the Contractor to jointly assess technical areas, such as the Contractor’s planning, to ensure complete coverage of the contract requirements, logical scheduling of the work activities, adequate resources, methodologies for earned value (budgeted cost for work performed (BCWP)), and identification of inherent risks.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr"/>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
