<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_204_29">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.204-29</ph>
         <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023"><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2020–011?>Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures.<?FM MARKER [Why] Add sections 52.204–28, 52.204–29, and 52.204–30.?></ph>
      </title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3102e8" rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref href="4.2306.dita#FAR_4_2306" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">4.2306</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures (Dec 2023)</p>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3102e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">
                     <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this provision, <i>Covered article, FASCSA order, Intelligence community, National security system, Reasonable inquiry, Sensitive compartmented information, Sensitive compartmented information system,</i> and <i>Source</i> have the meaning provided in the clause 52.204–30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition.</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">
                     <i>Prohibition.</i> Contractors are prohibited from providing or using as part of the performance of the contract any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the prohibition is set out in an applicable Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act (FASCSA) order, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of FAR 52.204–30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition.</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">
                     <i>Procedures</i>.</ph>
               </p>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e53">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">The Offeror shall search for the phrase “FASCSA order” in the System for Award Management (SAM)( <i>
                              <xref href="https://www.sam.gov" format="html" scope="external">https://www.sam.gov</xref>)</i> for any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if there is an applicable FASCSA order described in paragraph (b)(1) of FAR 52.204–30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e64">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">The Offeror shall review the solicitation for any FASCSA orders that are not in SAM, but are effective and do apply to the solicitation and resultant contract (see FAR 4.2303(c)(2)).</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e70">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">FASCSA orders issued after the date of solicitation do not apply unless added by an amendment to the solicitation.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e76">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">
                     <i>Representation.</i> By submission of this offer, the offeror represents that it has conducted a reasonable inquiry, and that the offeror does not propose to provide or use in response to this solicitation any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the covered article or the source is prohibited by an applicable FASCSA order in effect on the date the solicitation was issued, except as waived by the solicitation, or as disclosed in paragraph (e).</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e84">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">
                     <i>Disclosures.</i> The purpose for this disclosure is so the Government may decide whether to issue a waiver. For any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the covered article or the source is subject to an applicable FASCSA order, and the Offeror is unable to represent compliance, then the Offeror shall provide the following information as part of the offer:</ph>
               </p>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e93">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Name of the product or service provided to the Government;</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e99">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Name of the covered article or source subject to a FASCSA order;</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e105">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">If applicable, name of the vendor, including the Commercial and Government Entity code and unique entity identifier (if known), that supplied the covered article or the product or service to the Offeror;</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e111">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Brand;</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e117">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Model number (original equipment manufacturer number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number);</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e123">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Item description;</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e129">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">Reason why the applicable covered article or the product or service is being provided or used;</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e135">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">
                     <i>Executive agency review of disclosures.</i> The contracting officer will review disclosures provided in paragraph (e) to determine if any waiver may be sought. A contracting officer may choose not to pursue a waiver for covered articles or sources otherwise subject to a FASCSA order and may instead make an award to an offeror that does not require a waiver.</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" rev="FAC 2023-06 December 4, 2023">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
