<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_222_55"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.222-55</ph> Minimum Wages Under
Executive Order 13658.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3362e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="22.1906.dita#FAR_22_1906"
                     base="i1095377"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">22.1906</xref>
            </ph>, insert the
following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3355e14" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Minimum Wages Under <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13658"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Executive Order 13658</xref> (Nov
2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3324e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Definitions.
As used in this clause–</p>
               <p id="d3362e25" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.222-55" xtrc="d79e30">Seasonal recreational equipment
rental</i> 
                     means any equipment rental in connection with seasonal
recreational services.
               </p>
               <p id="d3362e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.222-55" xtrc="d79e38">Seasonal recreational services</i> means
services that include: river running, hunting, fishing, horseback
riding, camping, mountaineering activities, recreational ski services,
and youth camps.
               </p>
               <p id="d3362e33" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.222-55" xtrc="d3359e37">United States</i> means
the 50 states and the District of Columbia.</p>
               <p id="d3362e37" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.222-55" xtrc="d3359e43">Worker</i> –<ol id="d3324e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3362e43" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Means
any person engaged in performing work on, or in connection with,
a contract covered by Executive Order 13658, and-</p>
                        <ol id="d3324e57" class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3362e49" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Whose wages
under such contract are governed by the Fair Labor Standards Act
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                       format="html"
                                       scope="external"
                                       class="- topic/xref ">29	U.S.C. chapter 8</xref>), the Service Contract
Labor Standards statute (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                       format="html"
                                       scope="external"
                                       class="- topic/xref ">41	U.S.C. chapter 67</xref>),
or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                       format="html"
                                       scope="external"
                                       class="- topic/xref ">40
U.S.C. chapter	31</xref>, subchapter IV);</p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3362e63" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Other
than individuals employed in a bona fide executive, administrative,
or professional capacity, as those terms are defined in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR part 541</ph>; and</p>
                           </li>
                           <li class="- topic/li ">
                              <p id="d3362e71" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Regardless
of the contractual relationship alleged to exist between the individual
and the employer.</p>
                           </li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3362e76" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Includes
workers performing on, or in connection with, the contract whose
wages are calculated pursuant to special certificates issued under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">29
U.S.C. 214(c)</xref>.</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d3362e84" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Also includes
any person working on, or in connection with, the contract and individually
registered in a bona fide apprenticeship or training program registered
with the Department of Labor’s Employment and Training Administration,
Office of Apprenticeship, or with a State Apprenticeship Agency
recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e89" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Executive
Order Minimum wage rate.</p>
               <ol id="d3324e131" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e95" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Contractor shall pay to workers,
while performing in the United States, and performing on, or in
connection with, this contract, a minimum hourly wage rate of $10.10
per hour beginning January 1, 2015.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e100" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor
shall adjust the minimum wage paid, if necessary, beginning January
1, 2016, and annually thereafter, to meet the applicable annual
E.O. minimum wage. The Administrator of the Department of Labor’s
Wage and Hour Division (the Administrator) will publish annual determinations
in the Federal Register no later than 90 days before the effective
date of the new E.O. minimum wage rate. The Administrator will also
publish the applicable E.O. minimum wage on <xref href="http://www.wdol.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.wdol.gov</xref> (or
any successor website), and a general notice on all wage determinations issued
under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate
Requirements (Construction) statute, that will provide information
on the E.O. minimum wage and how to obtain annual updates. The applicable
published E.O. minimum wage is incorporated by reference into this
contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e108" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3324e162" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e113" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
Contractor may request a price adjustment only after the effective
date of the new annual E.O. minimum wage determination. Prices will
be adjusted only for increased labor costs (including subcontractor
labor costs) as a result of an increase in the annual E.O. minimum
wage, and for associated labor costs (including those for subcontractors).
Associated labor costs shall include increases or decreases that
result from changes in social security and unemployment taxes and
workers’ compensation insurance, but will not otherwise include
any amount for general and administrative costs, overhead, or profit.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e118" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Subcontractors
may be entitled to adjustments due to the new minimum wage, pursuant
to paragraph (b)(2). Contractors shall consider any subcontractor
requests for such price adjustment.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e123" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
Contracting Officer will not adjust the contract price under this
clause for any costs other than those identified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)
of this clause, and will not provide duplicate price adjustments
with any price adjustment under clauses implementing the Service
Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction)
statute.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e128" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The Contractor
warrants that the prices in this contract do not include allowance
for any contingency to cover increased costs for which adjustment
is provided under this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e133" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> A pay
period under this clause may not be longer than semi-monthly, but
may be shorter to comply with any applicable law or other requirement
under this contract establishing a shorter pay period. Workers shall
be paid no later than one pay period following the end of the regular
pay period in which such wages were earned or accrued.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e138" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> The Contractor
shall pay, unconditionally to each worker, all wages due free and
clear without subsequent rebate or kickback. The Contractor may
make deductions that reduce a worker’s wages below the E.O. minimum
wage rate only if done in accordance with <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29
CFR 10.23</ph>, Deductions.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e146" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> The Contractor
shall not discharge any part of its minimum wage obligation under
this clause by furnishing fringe benefits or, with respect to workers
whose wages are governed by the Service Contract Labor Standards
statute, the cash equivalent thereof.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e151" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph> Nothing
in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from compliance with
any applicable Federal or State prevailing wage law or any applicable
law or municipal ordinance establishing a minimum wage higher than
the E.O. minimum wage. However, wage increases under such other
laws or municipal ordinances are not subject to price adjustment
under this subpart.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e156" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph> The Contractor
shall pay the E.O. minimum wage rate whenever it is higher than
any applicable collective bargaining agreement(s) wage rate.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e161" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph> The Contractor
shall follow the policies and procedures in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29
CFR 10.24(b)</ph> and 10.28 for treatment of workers engaged in
an occupation in which they customarily and regularly receive more
than $30 a month in tips.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e169" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3324e267" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e174" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> This
clause applies to workers as defined in paragraph (a). As provided
in that definition–</p>
                     <ol id="d3324e277" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e180" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Workers are covered regardless
of the contractual relationship alleged to exist between the contractor
or subcontractor and the worker;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e185" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Workers
with disabilities whose wages are calculated pursuant to special
certificates issued under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">29 U.S.C.	214(c)</xref> are
covered; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e193" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Workers
who are registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program or training
program registered with the Department of Labor’s Employment and
Training Administration, Office of Apprenticeship, or with a State Apprenticeship
Agency recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship, are covered.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e198" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> This clause
does not apply to–</p>
                     <ol id="d3324e329" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e204" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)-covered
individuals performing in connection with contracts covered by the E.O., <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i> those
individuals who perform duties necessary to the performance of the
contract, but who are not directly engaged in performing the specific
work called for by the contract, and who spend less than 20 percent
of their hours worked in a particular workweek performing in connection
with such contracts;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e212" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Individuals
exempted from the minimum wage requirements of the FLSA under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">29 U.S.C. 213(a)</xref> and
214(a) and (b), unless otherwise covered by the Service Contract
Labor Standards statute, or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction)
statute. These individuals include but are not limited to-</p>
                           <ol id="d3324e354" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3362e221" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Learners,
apprentices, or messengers whose wages are calculated pursuant to
special certificates issued under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                          format="html"
                                          scope="external"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">29
U.S.C. 214(a)</xref> 
                                    ;
                                 </p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3362e229" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Students
whose wages are calculated pursuant to special certificates issued
under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                          format="html"
                                          scope="external"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">29 U.S.C. 214(b)</xref> 
                                    ; and
                                 </p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d3362e237" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> Those
employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional
capacity <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/"
                                          format="html"
                                          scope="external"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">(29 U.S.C. 213(a)(1)</xref> and <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR part 541</ph>); or
                                 </p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e248" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              Seasonal recreational
services or seasonal recreational equipment rental for the general
public on Federal lands, except for lodging and food services associated
with seasonal recreational services, in accordance with <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13838"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">Executive Order 13838</xref>,
Exemption from <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13658"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">Executive Order 13658</xref> for
Recreational Services on Federal Lands (3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 831),
as implemented by the U.S. Department of Labor regulations at <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/select-citation/2020/10/23/29-CFR-10.4"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">29 CFR 10.4(g)</xref>.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e262" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Notice.
The Contractor shall notify all workers performing work on, or in
connection with, this contract of the applicable E.O. minimum wage
rate under this clause. With respect to workers covered by the Service
Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction)
statute, the Contractor may meet this requirement by posting, in
a prominent and accessible place at the worksite, the applicable
wage determination under those statutes. With respect to workers
whose wages are governed by the FLSA, the Contractor shall post
notice, utilizing the poster provided by the Administrator, which
can be obtained at <xref href="http://www.dol.gov/whd/govcontracts"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.dol.gov/whd/govcontracts</xref>,
in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite. Contractors
that customarily post notices to workers electronically may post
the notice electronically provided the electronic posting is displayed
prominently on any Web site that is maintained by the contractor,
whether external or internal, and customarily used for notices to
workers about terms and conditions of employment.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e270" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Payroll
Records.</p>
               <ol id="d3324e421" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e276" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Contractor shall make and
maintain records, for three years after completion of the work, containing
the following information for each worker:</p>
                     <ol id="d3324e431" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e282" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Name, address,
and social security number;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e287" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The worker’s
occupation(s) or classification(s);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e292" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
rate or rates of wages paid;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e297" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> The number
of daily and weekly hours worked by each worker;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e302" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> Any deductions
made; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3362e307" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph> Total
wages paid.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e312" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor
shall make records pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this clause available
for inspection and transcription by authorized representatives of
the Administrator. The Contractor shall also make such records available upon
request of the Contracting Officer.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e317" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The Contractor
shall make a copy of the contract available, as applicable, for
inspection or transcription by authorized representatives of the
Administrator.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e322" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Failure
to comply with this paragraph (e) shall be a violation of <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR 10.26</ph> and this contract. Upon
direction of the Administrator or upon the Contracting Officer's
own action, payment shall be withheld until such time as the noncompliance
is corrected.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3362e330" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Nothing
in this clause limits or otherwise modifies the Contractor’s payroll
and recordkeeping obligations, if any, under the Service Contract
Labor Standards statute, the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction)
statute, the Fair Labor Standards Act, or any other applicable law.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e335" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> Access.
The Contractor shall permit authorized representatives of the Administrator
to conduct investigations, including interviewing workers at the
worksite during normal working hours.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e340" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph> Withholding.
The Contracting Officer, upon his or her own action or upon written
request of the Administrator, will withhold funds or cause funds
to be withheld, from the Contractor under this or any other Federal
contract with the same Contractor, sufficient to pay workers the
full amount of wages required by this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e345" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph> Disputes.
Department of Labor has set forth in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29
CFR 10.51</ph>, Disputes concerning contractor compliance, the procedures
for resolving disputes concerning a contractor’s compliance with
Department of Labor regulations at <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">29 CFR
Part 10</ph>. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with
those procedures and not the Disputes clause of this contract. These disputes
include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors)
and the contracting agency, the Department of Labor, or the workers
or their representatives.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e356" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Antiretaliation.
The Contractor shall not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
against any worker because such worker has filed any complaint or
instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related
to compliance with the E.O. or this clause, or has testified or
is about to testify in any such proceeding.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e361" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph> Subcontractor
compliance. The Contractor is responsible for subcontractor compliance
with the requirements of this clause and may be held liable for
unpaid wages due subcontractor workers.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3362e366" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(k)</ph> Subcontracts.
The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (k) in all subcontracts, regardless of dollar value,
that are subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute
or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to
be performed in whole or in part in the United States.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
