<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            id="FAR_52_215_20"
            xtrc="GFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.215-20</ph> Requirements for
Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost
or Pricing Data.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " outputclass="provision">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e8">As prescribed
in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1106593"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>(l)</ph>, insert
the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Requirements for Certified Cost or
Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3189e25">
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e19">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph> Exceptions from certified cost
or pricing data.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3189e35">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e25">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> In lieu of submitting certified
cost or pricing data, offerors may submit a written request for
exception by submitting the information described in the following
paragraphs.The Contracting Officer may require additional supporting
information, but only to the extent necessary to determine whether an
exception should be granted, and whether the price is fair and reasonable.</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3189e45">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e31">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Identification
of the law or regulation establishing the price offered</i>. If
the price is controlled under law by periodic rulings, reviews,
or similar actions of a governmental body, attach a copy of the
controlling document, unless it was previously submitted to the
contracting office.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e38">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                                 Commercial product and
commercial service exception</i>. For a commercial product and
commercial service exception, the offeror shall submit, at
a minimum, information on prices at which the same item or similar
items have previously been sold in the commercial market that is
adequate for evaluating the reasonableness of the price for this
acquisition. Such information may include-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3189e70">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e46">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> For catalog
items, a copy of or identification of the catalog and its date,
or the appropriate pages for the offered items, or a statement that
the catalog is on file in the buying office to which the proposal
is being submitted. Provide a copy or describe current discount
policies and price lists (published or unpublished), <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> wholesale,
original equipment manufacturer, or reseller. Also explain the basis
of each offered price and its relationship to the established catalog
price, including how the proposed price relates to the price of
recent sales in quantities similar to the proposed quantities;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e54">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> For market-priced
items, the source and date or period of the market quotation or
other basis for market price, the base amount, and applicable discounts.
In addition, describe the nature of the market;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e59">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(C)</ph> For items
included on an active Federal Supply Service Multiple Award Schedule
contract, proof that an exception has been granted for the schedule
item.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e64">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The offeror
grants the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative the
right to examine, at any time before award, books, records, documents,
or other directly pertinent records to verify any request for an
exception under this provision, and the reasonableness of price.
For items priced using catalog or market prices, or law or regulation,
access does not extend to cost or profit information or other data
relevant solely to the offeror’s determination of the prices to
be offered in the catalog or marketplace.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e69">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Requirements
for certified cost or pricing data</i>. If the offeror is not granted
an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing
data, the following applies:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3189e128">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e77">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The offeror shall prepare and submit certified cost or pricing data, data other than certified cost or pricing data, and supporting attachments in accordance with the instructions contained in <xref base="i1106753"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                              outputclass="fm:TEXT">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref> of FAR <xref base="i1106593"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>, which is incorporated by reference with the same force and effect as though it were inserted here in full text. The instructions in <xref base="i1106753"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                              outputclass="fm:TEXT">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref> are incorporated as a mandatory format to be used in this contract, unless the Contracting Officer and the Contractor agree to a different format and change this clause to use Alternate I.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3224e91">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> As soon
as practicable after agreement on price, but before contract award
(except for unpriced actions such as letter contracts), the offeror
shall submit a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, as prescribed
by FAR <xref base="i1106384"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.406-2.dita#FAR_15_406_2"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.406-2</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of Provision)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3227e102">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 2010)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(l)
(and see <xref base="i1106106"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="15.403-5.dita#FAR_15_403_5"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.403-5</xref>(b)(1)), substitute
the following paragraph (b)(1) for paragraph (b)(1) of the basic
provision:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b)(1) The offeror shall submit certified cost or pricing data, data other than certified cost or pricing data, and supporting attachments in the following format: <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrc="52.215-20_d5e120"
                     xtrf="GFI">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert description of the data and format that are required, and include access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with <xref base="i1106593"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>, <xref base="i1106753"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                           outputclass="fm:TEXT">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref>, Note 2. The description may be inserted at the time of issuing the solicitation, or the Contracting Officer may specify that the offeror’s format will be acceptable, or the description may be inserted as the result of negotiations.</i>]</cite>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3220e130">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 1997)</ph>.
As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(l), add the following
paragraph (c) to the basic provision:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1" xtrf="VFI">(c) When the proposal is submitted, also submit one copy each to: (1) the Administrative Contracting Officer, and (2) the Contract Auditor.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3220e144">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
III </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 1997)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(l), add the following
paragraph (c) to the basic provision (if Alternate II is also used,
redesignate the following paragraph as paragraph (d)).</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(c) Submit the cost portion of the proposal via the following electronic media: <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrc="52.215-20_d3212e226"
                     xtrf="GFI">__________________________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert media format, e.g.,electronic spreadsheet format, electronic mail, etc.</i>]</cite>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3220e164">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate IV
</i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 2010)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(l),
replace the text of the basic provision with the following:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) Submission of certified cost or pricing
data is not required.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) Provide data described below: <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrc="52.215-20_d3212e254"
                     xtrf="GFI">_____________________________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert description of the data and the format that are required, including the access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with <xref base="i1106008"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="15.403-3.dita#FAR_15_403_3"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.403-3</xref>
                  </i>.]</cite>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
