<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_7_107_5" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">7.107-5</ph> Notifications.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d411e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notifications to current small
business contractors of agency's intent to bundle</i>.</p>
               <ol id="d411e26" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e18">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
contracting officer shall notify each small business performing
a contract that it intends to bundle the requirement at least 30
days prior to the issuance of the solicitation for the bundled requirement.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The notification
shall provide the name, phone number and address of the applicable
SBA procurement center representative (PCR), or if an SBA PCR is
not assigned to the procuring activity, the SBA Office of Government
Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the buying activity
is located.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e28">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> This notification
shall be documented in the contract file.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notification to public of rationale
                  for bundled requirement</i>. The agency is encouraged to
                  provide notification of the rationale for any bundled
                  requirement to the GPE, before issuance of the solicitation
                  (see <xref href="5.201.dita#FAR_5_201"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e60">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notification
to the public of consolidation of contract requirements</i>. The SPE or CAO shall publish
in the GPE—
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>A notice that
the agency has determined a consolidation of contract requirements
is necessary and justified (see <xref href="7.107-2.dita#FAR_7_107_2"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.107-2</xref>) no later than
7 days after making the determination; the solicitation may not
be publicized prior to 7 days after publication of the notice of
the agency determination; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e76">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>The determination
that consolidation is necessary and justified with the publication
of the solicitation. See <xref href="7.107-2.dita#FAR_7_107_2"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.107-2</xref> for the required
content of the determination.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e84">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notification
to the public of substantial bundling of contract requirements</i>. The head of the agency
shall publish in the GPE—
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e92">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>A notice that the agency has determined
that a procurement involves substantial bundling (see <xref href="7.107-4.dita#FAR_7_107_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.107-4</xref>)
no later than 7 days after such determination has been made; the
solicitation may not be publicized prior to 7 days after the publication
of the notice of the determination; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e100">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>The rationale
for substantial bundling with the publication of the solicitation.
The rationale is the information required for inclusion in the acquisition
strategy at <xref href="7.107-4.dita#FAR_7_107_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.107-4</xref>(b).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e108">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notification
to SBA of follow-on bundled or consolidated requirements</i>. For
each follow-on bundled or consolidated requirement, the contracting
officer shall obtain the following from the requiring activity and
notify the SBA PCR no later than 30 days prior to issuance of the
solicitation:</p>
               <ol id="d411e107" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e116">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The amount of savings and benefits
achieved under the prior consolidation or bundling.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e121">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Whether
such savings and benefits will continue to be realized if the contract
remains consolidated or bundled.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e126">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Whether
such savings and benefits would be greater if the procurement requirements
were divided into separate solicitations suitable for award to small
business concerns.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e131">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> List of
requirements that have been added or deleted for the follow-on.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e136">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Annual
notification to the public of the rationale for bundled requirements.</i> 
                  The agency shall publish
on its website a list and rationale for any bundled requirement
for which the agency solicited offers or issued an award. The notification
shall be made annually within 30 days of the agency's data certification
regarding the validity and verification of data entered in the Federal
Procurement Data System to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (see <xref href="4.604.dita#FAR_4_604"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.604</xref>).
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d425e146">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                     Notification to public of
bundling policy</i>. In accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section644(q)(2)(A)(ii)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">15 U.S.C. 644(q)(2)(A)(ii)</xref>,
agencies shall publish the Governmentwide policy regarding contract
bundling, including regarding the solicitation of teaming and joint
ventures, on their agency website.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
