<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_9_106_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">9.106-4</ph> Reports.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d545e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d560e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            The surveying activity shall complete the applicable parts of <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-general"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1403</xref>, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor (General); <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-technical"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1404</xref>, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Technical; <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-production"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1405</xref>, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Production; <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-quality-assurance"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1406</xref>, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Quality Assurance; <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-financial-capability"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1407</xref>, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Financial Capability; and <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-accounting-system"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1408</xref>, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Accounting System; and provide a narrative discussion sufficient to support both the evaluation ratings and the recommendations.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d560e34">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						            When the contractor surveyed is a small business that has received preferential treatment on an ongoing contract under Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637) or has received a Certificate of Competency during the last 12 months, the surveying activity shall consult the appropriate Small Business Administration field office before making an affirmative recommendation regarding the contractor’s responsibility or nonresponsibility.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d560e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            When a preaward survey discloses previous unsatisfactory performance, the surveying activity shall specify the extent to which the prospective contractor plans, or has taken, corrective action. Lack of evidence that past failure to meet contractual requirements was the prospective contractor’s fault does not necessarily indicate satisfactory performance. The narrative shall report any persistent pattern of need for costly and burdensome Government assistance (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> engineering, inspection, or testing) provided in the Government’s interest but not contractually required.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d560e50">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						            When the surveying activity possesses information that supports a recommendation of complete award without an on-site survey and no special areas for investigation have been requested, the surveying activity may provide a short-form preaward survey report. The short-form report shall consist solely of the Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor (General), <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/pre-award-survey-prospective-contractor-general"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1403</xref>. Sections III and IV of this form shall be completed and block21 shall be checked to show that the report is a short-form preaward report.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
