<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_9_407_1"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.407-1</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d592e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d619e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            The suspending official may, in the public interest, suspend a contractor for any of the causes in <xref href="9.407-2.dita#FAR_9_407_2"
                        base="i1115483"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.407-2</xref>, using the procedures in <xref href="9.407-3.dita#FAR_9_407_3"
                        base="i1115521"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.407-3</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d619e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d592e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d619e26" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                Suspension is a serious action to be imposed on the basis of adequate evidence, pending the completion of investigation or legal proceedings, when it has been determined that immediate action is necessary to protect the Government’s interest. In assessing the adequacy of the evidence, agencies should consider how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. This assessment should include an examination of basic documents such as contracts, inspection reports, and correspondence.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d619e31" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                The existence of a cause for suspension does not necessarily require that the contractor be suspended. The suspending official should consider the seriousness of the contractor’s acts or omissions and may, but is not required to, consider remedial measures or mitigating factors, such as those set forth in <xref href="9.406-1.dita#FAR_9_406_1"
                              base="i1115302"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">9.406-1</xref>(a). A contractor has the burden of promptly presenting to the suspending official evidence of remedial measures or mitigating factors when it has reason to know that a cause for suspension exists. The existence or nonexistence of any remedial measures or mitigating factors is not necessarily determinative of a contractor’s present responsibility.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d619e39" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            Suspension constitutes suspension of all divisions or other organizational elements of the contractor, unless the suspension decision is limited by its terms to specific divisions, organizational elements, or commodities. The suspending official may extend the suspension decision to include any affiliates of the contractor if they are-</p>
               <ol id="d592e71" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d619e45" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                Specifically named; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d619e50" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                Given written notice of the suspension and an opportunity to respond (see <xref href="9.407-3.dita#FAR_9_407_3"
                              base="i1115521"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">9.407-3</xref>(c)).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d619e58" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						            A contractor’s suspension shall be effective throughout the executive branch of the Government, unless the agency head or a designee (except see <xref href="23.506.dita#FAR_23_506"
                        base="i1094606"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">23.506</xref>(e)) states in writing the compelling reasons justifying continued business dealings between that agency and the contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d619e66" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d592e116" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d619e71" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                When the suspending official has authority to suspend contractors from both acquisition contracts pursuant to this regulation and contracts for the purchase of Federal personal property pursuant to FPMR 101-45.6, that official shall consider simultaneously suspending the contractor from the award of acquisition contracts and from the purchase of Federal personal property.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d619e76" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                When suspending a contractor from the award of acquisition contracts and from the purchase of Federal personal property, the suspension notice shall so indicate and the appropriate FAR and FPMR citations shall be included.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
