<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_9_505_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">9.505-2</ph> Preparing specifications or work statements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d607e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d607e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e15">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                If a contractor prepares and furnishes complete specifications covering nondevelopmental items, to be used in a competitive acquisition, that contractor shall not be allowed to furnish these items, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor, for a reasonable period of time including, at least, the duration of the initial production contract. The restriction in this paragraph (a)(1) shall not apply to-</p>
                     <ol id="d607e33" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e21">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
										                    Contractors that furnish at Government request specifications or data regarding a product they provide, even though the specifications or data may have been paid for separately or in the price of the product; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e26">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
										                    Situations in which contractors, acting as industry representatives, help Government agencies prepare, refine, or coordinate specifications, regardless of source, provided this assistance is supervised and controlled by Government representatives.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                If a single contractor drafts complete specifications for nondevelopmental equipment, it should be eliminated for a reasonable time from competition for production based on the specifications. This should be done in order to avoid a situation in which the contractor could draft specifications favoring its own products or capabilities. In this way the Government can be assured of getting unbiased advice as to the content of the specifications and can avoid allegations of favoritism in the award of production contracts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                In development work, it is normal to select firms that have done the most advanced work in the field. These firms can be expected to design and develop around their own prior knowledge. Development contractors can frequently start production earlier and more knowledgeably than firms that did not participate in the development, and this can affect the time and quality of production, both of which are important to the Government. In many instances the Government may have financed the development. Thus, while the development contractor has a competitive advantage, it is an unavoidable one that is not considered unfair; hence no prohibition should be imposed.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e41">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d607e83" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e46">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                If a contractor prepares, or assists in preparing, a work statement to be used in competitively acquiring a system or services-or provides material leading directly, predictably, and without delay to such a work statement-that contractor may not supply the system, major components of the system, or the services unless-</p>
                     <ol id="d607e93" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e52">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
										                    It is the sole source;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e57">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
										                    It has participated in the development and design work; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e62">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
										                    More than one contractor has been involved in preparing the work statement.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e67">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                Agencies should normally prepare their own work statements. When contractor assistance is necessary, the contractor might often be in a position to favor its own products or capabilities. To overcome the possibility of bias, contractors are prohibited from supplying a system or services acquired on the basis of work statements growing out of their services, unless excepted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d634e72">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                For the reasons given in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, no prohibitions are imposed on development and design contractors.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
