<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <concept id="i1123845"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">3.907-2</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">Non-Federal employers are prohibited from discharging, demoting, or otherwise discriminating against an employee as a reprisal for disclosing covered information to any of the following entities or their representatives:</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(1) The Board.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(2) An Inspector General.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(3) The Comptroller General.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(4) A member of Congress.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(5) A State or Federal regulatory or law enforcement agency.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(6) A person with supervisory authority over the employee or such other person working for the employer who has the authority to investigate, discover, or terminate misconduct.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(7) A court or grand jury.</p>
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">(8) The head of a Federal agency.</p>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
