<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1101844"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.102</ph> Size standards.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1128e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1142e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1128e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The SBA establishes
small business size standards on an industry-by-industry basis.
(See 13 CFR Part 121). Small business size standards matched to
industry NAICS codes are published by the Small Business Administration and
are available at <xref href="http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e39" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> NAICS codes
are updated by the Office of Management and Budget through its Economic
Classification Policy Committee every five years. New NAICS codes
are not available for use in Federal contracting until the Small
Business Administration publishes corresponding industry size standards
(see 19.102(a)(1)).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1142e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Small business
size standards are applied by-</p>
               <ol id="d1128e56" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Classifying
the product or service being acquired in the industry whose definition,
as found in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
Manual (available at <xref href="https://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/</xref>),
best describes the principal nature of the product or service being
acquired;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e72" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Identifying
the size standard SBA established for that industry; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e81" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Specifying
the size standard in the solicitation so that offerors can appropriately
represent themselves as small or large.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1142e92" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> For size
standard purposes, a product or service shall be classified in only
one industry, whose definition best describes the principal nature
of the product or service being acquired even though for other purposes
it could be classified in more than one.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1142e101" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> When acquiring
a product or service that could be classified in two or more industries
with different size standards, contracting officers shall apply
the size standard for the industry accounting for the greatest percentage
of the contract price.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1142e110" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> If a solicitation
calls for more than one item and allows offers to be submitted on
any or all of the items, an offeror must meet the size standard
for each item it offers to furnish. If a solicitation calling for
more than one item requires offers on all or none of the items,
an offeror may qualify as a small business by meeting the size standard
for the item accounting for the greatest percentage of the total
contract price.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1142e120" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> Any concern
submitting a bid or offer in its own name, other than on a construction
or service contract, that proposes to furnish an end product it
did not manufacture (a “nonmanufacturer”), is a small business if
it has no more than 500 employees, and-</p>
               <ol id="d1128e126" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e130" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Except as
provided in paragraphs(f)(4) through (f)(7) of this section, in
the case of Government acquisitions set-aside for small businesses,
furnishes in the performance of the contract, the product of a small
business manufacturer or producer. The end product furnished must
be manufactured or produced in the United States or its outlying
areas. The term “nonmanufacturer” includes a concern that can, but
elects not to, manufacture or produce the end product for the specific
acquisition. For size determination purposes, there can be only
one manufacturer of the end product being acquired. The manufacturer
of the end product being acquired is the concern that, with its
own forces, transforms inorganic or organic substances including
raw materials and/or miscellaneous parts or components into the
end product. However, see the limitations on subcontracting at <xref href="FAR-i1057730.dita#i1057730"
                              base="i1057730"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-14</xref> that apply to
any small business offeror other than a nonmanufacturer for purposes
of set-asides and 8(a) awards, <xref href="FAR-i1057314.dita#i1057314"
                              base="i1057314"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-3</xref> for
HUBZone set-asides and HUBZone sole source awards, <xref href="FAR-i1057823.dita#i1057823"
                              base="i1057823"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-27</xref> for SDVOSB set-asides
and SDVOSB sole source awards, <xref href="FAR-i1057902.dita#i1057902"
                              base="i1057902"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-29</xref> for
economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) set-asides
and EDWOSB sole source awards, and <xref href="FAR-i1057947.dita#i1057947"
                              base="i1057947"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-30</xref> for set-asides
and sole source awards to women-owned small business (WOSB) concerns
eligible under the WOSB Program.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e155" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A concern
which purchases items and packages them into a kit is considered
to be a nonmanufacturer small business and can qualify as such for
a given acquisition if it meets the size qualifications of a small
nonmanufacturer for the acquisition, and if more than 50 percent
of the total value of the kit and its contents are accounted for
by items manufactured by small business.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e164" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> For the
purpose of receiving a Certificate of Competency on an unrestricted
acquisition, a small business nonmanufacturer may furnish any domestically
produced or manufactured product.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e173" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> In the
case of acquisitions set aside for small business or awarded under
section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, when the acquisition is
for a specific product (or a product in a class of products) for
which the SBA has determined that there are no small business manufacturers
or processors in the Federal market, then the SBA may grant a class waiver
so that a nonmanufacturer does not have to furnish the product of
a small business. For the most current listing of classes for which
SBA has granted a waiver, contact an SBA Office of Government Contracting.
A listing is also available on SBA’s Internet Homepage at <xref href="http://www.sba.gov/content/class-waivers"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.sba.gov/content/class-waivers</xref>.
Contracting officers may request that the SBA waive the nonmanufacturer
rule for a particular class of products. For procedures in requesting
a waiver see 13 CFR 121.1204.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e185" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>  For a
specific solicitation, a contracting officer may request a waiver
of that part of the nonmanufacturer rule which requires that the
actual manufacturer or processor be a small business concern if
no known domestic small business manufacturers or processors can
reasonably be expected to offer a product meeting the requirements
of the solicitation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e195" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Requests
for waivers shall be sent to the-</p>
                     <p id="d1142e201" class="- topic/p "/>
                     <p id="d1142e203" class="- topic/p ">Associate Administrator for Government Contracting</p>
                     <p id="d1142e206" class="- topic/p ">United States Small Business Administration</p>
                     <p id="d1142e209" class="- topic/p ">Mail Code 6250</p>
                     <p id="d1142e213" class="- topic/p ">409 Third
Street, SW</p>
                     <p id="d1142e216" class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20416.</p>
                     <p id="d1142e219" class="- topic/p "/>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e224" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> The SBA
provides for an exception to the nonmanufacturer rule if-</p>
                     <ol id="d1128e222" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1142e234" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
procurement of a manufactured end product processed under the procedures
set forth in <xref href="FAR-i1112458.dita#i1112458"
                                    base="i1112458"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  13</xref>-</p>
                           <ol id="d1128e235" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d1142e247" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Is
set aside for small business; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d1142e256" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Is not
anticipated to exceed $25,000; and</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1142e267" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The offeror
supplies an end product that is manufactured or produced in the
United States or its outlying areas.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1142e278" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph> For non-manufacturer
rules pertaining to HUBZone contracts, see <xref href="FAR-i1099561.dita#i1099561"
                              base="i1099561"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.1303</xref>(e).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>