<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <concept id="i1058127"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_10"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_10"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_10" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.216-2</ph> Economic Price Adjustment-Standard Supplies.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body"
            outputclass="Body"
            class="- topic/p "
            id="d3213e13">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1104904.dita#i1104904"
                     base="i1104904"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">16.203-4</xref>(a)</ph>, insert the following clause. The clause may be modified by increasing the 10 percent limit on aggregate increases specified in paragraph (c)(1), upon approval by the chief of the contracting office.</p>
         <p otherprops="Ctr_SmCaps" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Economic Price Adjustment-Standard Supplies (Jan 1997)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3195e25">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3213e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  The Contractor warrants that the unit price stated in the Schedule for _________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">offeror insert Schedule line item number</i>] is not in excess of the Contractor’s applicable established price in effect on the contract date for like quantities of the same item. The term “unit price” excludes any part of the price directly resulting from requirements for preservation, packaging, or packing beyond standard commercial practice. The term “established price” means a price that-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3195e38">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Is an established catalog or market price for a commercial item sold in substantial quantities to the general public; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Is the net price after applying any standard trade discounts offered by the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3213e62" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the amount and effective date of each decrease in any applicable established price. Each corresponding contract unit price shall be decreased by the same percentage that the established price is decreased. The decrease shall apply to those items delivered on and after the effective date of the decrease in the Contractor’s established price, and this contract shall be modified accordingly.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3213e71" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  If the Contractor’s applicable established price is increased after the contract date, the corresponding contract unit price shall be increased, upon the Contractor’s written request to the Contracting Officer, by the same percentage that the established price is increased, and the contract shall be modified accordingly, subject to the following limitations:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3195e77">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e81" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        The aggregate of the increases in any contract unit price under this clause shall not exceed 10 percent of the original contract unit price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e90" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        The increased contract unit price shall be effective-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3195e96">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3213e100" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              On the effective date of the increase in the applicable established price if the Contracting Officer receives the Contractor’s written request within 10 days thereafter; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3213e109" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              If the written request is received later, on the date the Contracting Officer receives the request.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e120" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        The increased contract unit price shall not apply to quantities scheduled under the contract for delivery before the effective date of the increased contract unit price, unless failure to deliver before that date results from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, within the meaning of the Default clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e129" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        No modification increasing a contract unit price shall be executed under this paragraph (c) until the Contracting Officer verifies the increase in the applicable established price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3213e138" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Within 30 days after receipt of the Contractor’s written request, the Contracting Officer may cancel, without liability to either party, any undelivered portion of the contract items affected by the requested increase.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3213e149" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  During the time allowed for the cancellation provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this clause, and thereafter if there is no cancellation, the Contractor shall continue deliveries according to the contract delivery schedule, and the Government shall pay for such deliveries at the contract unit price, increased to the extent provided by paragraph (c) of this clause.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p otherprops="Body_Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
