<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="i1103270"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">17.103</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_17.103" xtrc="d1056e18">Cancellation</i> means the cancellation (within a contractually specified time) of the total requirements of all remaining program years. Cancellation results when the contracting officer-<ol id="d1037e19" class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <ol id="d1037e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d1059e18" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Notifies the contractor of nonavailability of funds for contract performance for any subsequent program year; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d1059e23" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Fails to notify the contractor that funds are available for performance of the succeeding program year requirement.</p>
                        <p id="d1059e27" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_17.103" xtrc="d1056e46">Cancellation ceiling</i> means the maximum cancellation charge that the contractor can receive in the event of cancellation.</p>
                        <p id="d1059e31" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_17.103" xtrc="d1056e52">Cancellation charge</i> means the amount of unrecovered costs which would have been recouped through amortization over the full term of the contract, including the term canceled.</p>
                        <p id="d1059e35" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_17.103" xtrc="d1056e58">Multi-year contract</i> means a contract for the purchase of supplies or services for more than 1, but not more than 5, program years. A multi-year contract may provide that performance under the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract is contingent upon the appropriation of funds, and (if it does so provide) may provide for a cancellation payment to be made to the contractor if appropriations are not made. The key distinguishing difference between multi-year contracts and multiple year contracts is that multi-year contracts, defined in the statutes cited at <xref href="FAR-i1103259.dita#i1103259"
                                 base="i1103259"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">17.101</xref>, buy more than 1 year’s requirement (of a product or service) without establishing and having to exercise an option for each program year after the first.</p>
                        <p id="d1059e42" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_17.103" xtrc="d1056e67">Nonrecurring costs</i> means those costs which are generally incurred on a one-time basis and include such costs as plant or equipment relocation, plant rearrangement, special tooling and special test equipment, preproduction engineering, initial spoilage and rework, and specialized work force training.</p>
                        <p id="d1059e46" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_17.103" xtrc="d1056e74">Recurring costs</i> means costs that vary with the quantity being produced, such as labor and materials.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
