<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
	  <concept id="id203G80S70HS"
            rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.809-2</ph>
         <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?> Limitations on subcontracting
			and nonmanufacturer rule.<?FM MARKER [Why] Revise section 19.809-2.?>
		</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="id203G80T08UI" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            
						Limitations
						on subcontracting. To be awarded a contract or order under the 8(a)
						program, the 8(a) participant is required to perform—
					</p>
					          <ol class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8200IPN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                
								For services
								(except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost incurred
								for personnel with its own employees;
							</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8200M7Q" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                
								For
								supplies or products (other than a procurement from a Start Printed
								Page 11766nonmanufacturer of such supplies or products), at least
								50 percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies or products
								(not including the cost of materials);
							</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8200M30" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                
								For
								general construction, at least 15 percent of the cost with its own
								employees (not including the cost of materials); and
							</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8200MRO" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                
								For
								construction by special trade contractors, at least 25 percent of
								the cost with its own employees (not including the cost of materials).
							</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="id203G80T0FYK" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            
						Compliance
						period. An 8(a) contractor is required to comply with the limitations
						on subcontracting—
					</p>
					          <ol class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G83002E9" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                
								For a contract under the 8(a)
								program, either by the end of the base term and then by the end
								of each subsequent option period or by the end of the performance
								period for each order issued under the contract, at the contracting
								officer's discretion; and
							</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G830054Y" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                
								For
								an order competed exclusively among contractors who are 8(a) participants
								or for an order issued directly to one 8(a) contractor in accordance
								with
								<xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              base="id203CEK0I0HS"
                              href="FAR-19.504.dita#id203CEK0I0HS">19.504</xref>(c)(1)(ii), by the end of the performance period for
								the order.
							</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="id203G80T0GHT" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            
						Waiver.
						The applicable SBA District Director may waive the provisions in
						paragraph (b)(1) requiring a participant to comply with the limitations
						on subcontracting for each period of performance or for each order.
						Instead, the SBA District Director may permit the participant to
						subcontract in excess of the limitations on subcontracting where
						the SBA District Director makes a written determination that larger
						amounts of subcontracting are essential during certain stages of
						performance.
					</p>
					          <ol class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8300IXW" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                
								The
								8(a) participant is required to provide the SBA District Director
								written assurance that the participant will ultimately comply with
								the requirements of this section prior to contract completion. The
								contracting officer shall review the written assurance and inform
								the 8(a) participant of their concurrence or nonconcurrence. The
								8(a) participant can only submit the written assurance to the SBA
								District Director upon concurrence by the contracting officer.
							</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8300IQN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                
								The
								contracting officer does not have the authority to waive the provisions
								of this section requiring an 8(a) participant to comply with the
								limitations on subcontracting for each period of performance or
								order, even if the agency has a Partnership Agreement with SBA.
							</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="id203G8300KBI" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                
								Where
								the 8(a) participant does not ultimately comply with the limitations
								on subcontracting by the end of the contract, SBA will not grant
								future waivers for the 8(a) participant.
							</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="id203G80T0HPF" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            
						Nonmanufacturer
						rule. See
						<xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        base="id203CGK00TBF"
                        href="FAR-19.505.dita#id203CGK00TBF">19.505</xref>(c) for application of the nonmanufacturer rule,
						inclusive of waivers and exceptions to the nonmanufacturer rule.
					</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
