<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1100762"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.502-2</ph> Total small business set-asides.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d1160e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1174e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Before setting aside an acquisition under this paragraph, refer to <xref href="FAR-i1101696.dita#i1101696"
                        base="i1101696"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.203</xref>(b). Each acquisition of supplies or services that has an anticipated dollar value exceeding $3,500 ($20,000 for acquisitions as described in <xref href="FAR-i1111870.dita#i1111870"
                        base="i1111870"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13.201</xref>(g)(1)), but not over $150,000 ($750,000 for acquisitions described in paragraph (1)(i) of the simplified acquisition threshold definition at <xref href="FAR-i1125359.dita#i1125359"
                        base="i1125359"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>), is automatically reserved exclusively for small business concerns and shall be set aside for small business unless the contracting officer determines there is not a reasonable expectation of obtaining offers from two or more responsible small business concerns that are competitive in terms of market prices, quality, and delivery. If the contracting officer does not proceed with the small business set-aside and purchases on an unrestricted basis, the contracting officer shall include in the contract file the reason for this unrestricted purchase. If the contracting officer receives only one acceptable offer from a responsible small business concern in response to a set-aside, the contracting officer should make an award to that firm. If the contracting officer receives no acceptable offers from responsible small business concerns, the set-aside shall be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid, shall be resolicited on an unrestricted basis. The small business reservation does not preclude the award of a contract as described in <xref href="FAR-i1101696.dita#i1101696"
                        base="i1101696"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.203</xref>.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1174e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Before setting aside an acquisition under this paragraph, refer to <xref href="FAR-i1101696.dita#i1101696"
                        base="i1101696"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.203</xref>(c). The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition over $150,000 for small business participation when there is a reasonable expectation that-</p>
					          <ol id="d1160e47" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1174e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Offers will be obtained from at least two responsible small business concerns offering the products of different small business concerns (see paragraph (c) of this section); and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1174e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Award will be made at fair market prices. Total small business set-asides shall not be made unless such a reasonable expectation exists (see <xref href="FAR-i1100796.dita#i1100796"
                              base="i1100796"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.502-3</xref> as to partial set-asides). Although past acquisition history of an item or similar items is always important, it is not the only factor to be considered in determining whether a reasonable expectation exists. In making R&amp;D small business set-asides, there must also be a reasonable expectation of obtaining from small businesses the best scientific and technological sources consistent with the demands of the proposed acquisition for the best mix of cost, performances, and schedules.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1174e74" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            For small business set-asides other than for construction or services, any concern proposing to furnish a product that it did not itself manufacture must furnish the product of a small business manufacturer unless the SBA has granted either a waiver or exception to the nonmanufacturer rule (see <xref href="FAR-i1101844.dita#i1101844"
                        base="i1101844"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.102</xref>(f)). In industries where the SBA finds that there are no small business manufacturers, it may issue a waiver to the nonmanufacturer rule (see <xref href="FAR-i1101844.dita#i1101844"
                        base="i1101844"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.102</xref>(f)(4) and (5)). In addition, SBA has excepted procurements processed under simplified acquisition procedures (see <xref href="FAR-i1112458.dita#i1112458"
                        base="i1112458"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  13</xref>), where the anticipated cost of the procurement will not exceed $25,000, from the nonmanufacturer rule. Waivers permit small businesses to provide any firm’s product. The exception permits small businesses to provide any domestic firm’s product. In both of these cases, the contracting officer’s determination in paragraph (b)(1) of this subsection or the decision not to set aside a procurement reserved for small business under paragraph (a) of this subsection will be based on the expectation of receiving offers from at least two responsible small businesses, including nonmanufacturers, offering the products of different concerns.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
