<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="i1052648"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_10"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_10"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_10" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.227-15</ph> Representation
of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body"
            outputclass="Body"
            class="- topic/p "
            id="d3426e13">As
prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1089472.dita#i1089472"
                     base="i1089472"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">27.409</xref>(c)</ph>, insert the following
provision:</p>
         <p otherprops="Ctr_SmCaps" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Representation of Limited Rights Data and
Restricted Computer Software (Dec 2007)</p>
         <ol id="d3408e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3426e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  This solicitation sets forth the
Government’s known delivery requirements for data (as defined in
the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052520.dita#i1052520"
                        base="i1052520"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref>, Rights in Data-General).
Any resulting contract may also provide the Government the option
to order additional data under the Additional Data Requirements
clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052670.dita#i1052670"
                        base="i1052670"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-16</xref>,
if included in the contract. Any data delivered under the resulting
contract will be subject to the Rights in Data-General clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052520.dita#i1052520"
                        base="i1052520"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref> included
in this contract. Under the latter clause, a Contractor may withhold
from delivery data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted
computer software, and deliver form, fit, and function data instead.
The latter clause also may be used with its Alternates II and/or
III to obtain delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer
software, marked with limited rights or restricted rights notices,
as appropriate. In addition, use of Alternate V with this latter
clause provides the Government the right to inspect such data at
the Contractor’s facility.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3426e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  By completing the remainder of
this paragraph, the offeror represents that it has reviewed the
requirements for the delivery of technical data or computer software
and states [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">offeror check appropriate
block</i>]-</p>
               <p id="d3426e56" class="- topic/p ">□ None
of the data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements
qualifies as limited rights data or restricted computer software;
or</p>
               <p id="d3426e59" class="- topic/p ">□ Data proposed
for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualify as limited
rights data or restricted computer software and are identified as
follows:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3426e62">_____________</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3426e65">_____________</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3426e69">_____________</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3426e75" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Any identification of limited
rights data or restricted computer software in the offeror’s response
is not determinative of the status of the data should a contract
be awarded to the offeror.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p otherprops="Body_Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End
of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
