<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1057758"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.219-16</ph> Liquidated Damages-Subcontracting Plan.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3270e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1100497.dita#i1100497"
                     base="i1100497"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">19.708</xref>(b)(2)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Liquidated Damages-Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999)</p>
			      <ol id="d3252e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3270e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            “Failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan,” as used in this clause, means a willful or intentional failure to perform in accordance with the requirements of the subcontracting plan approved under the clause in this contract entitled “Small Business Subcontracting Plan,” or willful or intentional action to frustrate the plan.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3270e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Performance shall be measured by applying the percentage goals to the total actual subcontracting dollars or, if a commercial plan is involved, to the pro rata share of actual subcontracting dollars attributable to Government contracts covered by the commercial plan. If, at contract completion or, in the case of a commercial plan, at the close of the fiscal year for which the plan is applicable, the Contractor has failed to meet its subcontracting goals and the Contracting Officer decides in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause that the Contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan, established in accordance with the clause in this contract entitled “Small Business Subcontracting Plan,” the Contractor shall pay the Government liquidated damages in an amount stated. The amount of probable damages attributable to the Contractor’s failure to comply shall be an amount equal to the actual dollar amount by which the Contractor failed to achieve each subcontract goal.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3270e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Before the Contracting Officer makes a final decision that the Contractor has failed to make such good faith effort, the Contracting Officer shall give the Contractor written notice specifying the failure and permitting the Contractor to demonstrate what good faith efforts have been made and to discuss the matter. Failure to respond to the notice may be taken as an admission that no valid explanation exists. If, after consideration of all the pertinent data, the Contracting Officer finds that the Contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan, the Contracting Officer shall issue a final decision to that effect and require that the Contractor pay the Government liquidated damages as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3270e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            With respect to commercial plans, the Contracting Officer who approved the plan will perform the functions of the Contracting Officer under this clause on behalf of all agencies with contracts covered by the commercial plan.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3270e65" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the clause in this contract entitled, Disputes, from any final decision of the Contracting Officer.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3270e75" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Liquidated damages shall be in addition to any other remedies that the Government may have.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
