<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <concept id="i1044997"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_10"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_10"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_10" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.249-10</ph> Default (Fixed-Price Construction).</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body"
            outputclass="Body"
            class="- topic/p "
            id="d3734e13">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1067908.dita#i1067908"
                     base="i1067908"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.504</xref>(c)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p otherprops="Ctr_SmCaps" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Default (Fixed-Price Construction) (Apr 1984)</p>
         <ol id="d3717e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3734e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  If the Contractor refuses or fails to prosecute the work or any separable part, with the diligence that will insure its completion within the time specified in this contract including any extension, or fails to complete the work within this time, the Government may, by written notice to the Contractor, terminate the right to proceed with the work (or the separable part of the work) that has been delayed. In this event, the Government may take over the work and complete it by contract or otherwise, and may take possession of and use any materials, appliances, and plant on the work site necessary for completing the work. The Contractor and its sureties shall be liable for any damage to the Government resulting from the Contractor’s refusal or failure to complete the work within the specified time, whether or not the Contractor’s right to proceed with the work is terminated. This liability includes any increased costs incurred by the Government in completing the- work.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3734e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  The Contractor’s right to proceed shall not be terminated nor the Contractor charged with damages under this clause, if-</p>
               <ol id="d3717e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3734e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        The delay in completing the work arises from unforeseeable causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of such causes include-</p>
                     <ol id="d3717e54" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e58" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Acts of God or of the public enemy,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e67" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e76" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Acts of another Contractor in the performance of a contract with the Government,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e85" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Fires,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e94" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Floods,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e104" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Epidemics,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e113" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Quarantine restrictions,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e122" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Strikes,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e131" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Freight embargoes,</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e140" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(x)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Unusually severe weather, or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3734e149" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xi)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Delays of subcontractors or suppliers at any tier arising from unforeseeable causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of both the Contractor and the subcontractors or suppliers; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3734e160" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        The Contractor, within 10 days from the beginning of any delay (unless extended by the Contracting Officer), notifies the Contracting Officer in writing of the causes of delay. The Contracting Officer shall ascertain the facts and the extent of delay. If, in the judgment of the Contracting Officer, the findings of fact warrant such action, the time for completing the work shall be extended. The findings of the Contracting Officer shall be final and conclusive on the parties, but subject to appeal under the Disputes clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3734e171" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  If, after termination of the Contractor’s right to proceed, it is determined that the Contractor was not in default, or that the delay was excusable, the rights and obligations of the parties will be the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3734e180" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  The rights and remedies of the Government in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p otherprops="Body_Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="H_Body" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (<i otherprops="SmallCaps" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the contract is for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List1"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) If the Contractor refuses or fails to prosecute the work, or any separable part, with the diligence that will insure its completion within the time specified in this contract, including any extension, or fails to complete the work within this time, the Government may, by written notice to the Contractor, terminate the right to proceed with the work or the part of the work that has been delayed. In this event, the Government may take over the work and complete it by contract or otherwise, and may take possession of and use any materials, appliances, and plant on the work site necessary for completing the work.</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List2"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(2) If title to property is vested in the Contractor under this contract, it shall revest in the Government regardless of any other clause of this contract, except for property that the Contractor has disposed of by bona fide sale or removed from the site.</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List2"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(3) The Contractor and its sureties shall be liable for any damage to the Government resulting from the Contractor’s refusal or failure to complete the work within the specified time, whether or not the Contractor’s right to proceed with the work is terminated. This liability includes any increased costs incurred by the Government in completing the work.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="H_Body" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II (<i otherprops="SmallCaps" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the contract is to be awarded during a period of national emergency, paragraph (b)(1) below may be substituted for paragraph (b)(1) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List2"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(1) The delay in completing the work arises from causes other than normal weather beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of such causes include-</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(i) Acts of God or of the public enemy,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(ii) Acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(iii) Acts of another Contractor in the performance of a contract with the Government,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(iv) Fires,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(v) Floods,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(vi) Epidemics,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(vii) Quarantine restrictions,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(viii) Strikes,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(ix) Freight embargoes,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(x) Unusually severe weather, or</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(xi) Delays of subcontractors or suppliers at any tier arising from causes other than normal weather beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of both the Contractor and the subcontractors or suppliers; and</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="H_Body" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III (<i otherprops="SmallCaps" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the contract is for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements and is to be awarded during a period of national emergency, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause. The following paragraph (b)(1) may be substituted for paragraph (b)(1) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List1"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) If the Contractor refuses or fails to prosecute the work, or any separable part, with the diligence that will insure its completion within the time specified in this contract, including any extension, or fails to complete the work within this time, the Government may, by written notice to the Contractor, terminate the right to proceed with the work or the part of the work that has been delayed. In this event, the Government may take over the work and complete it by contract or otherwise, and may take possession of and use any materials, appliances, and plant on the work site necessary for completing the work.</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List2"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(2) If title to property is vested in the Contractor under this contract, it shall revest in the Government regardless of any other clause of this contract, except for property that the Contractor has disposed of by bona fide sale or removed from the site.</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List2"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(3) The Contractor and its sureties shall be liable for any damage to the Government resulting from the Contractor’s refusal or failure to complete the work within the specified time, whether or not the Contractor’s right to proceed with the work is terminated. This liability includes any increased costs incurred by the Government in completing the work.</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List1"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(b) The Contractor’s right to proceed shall not be terminated nor the Contractor charged with damages under this clause, if-</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List2"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(1) The delay in completing the work arises from causes other than normal weather beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of such causes include-</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(i) Acts of God or of the public enemy,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(ii) Acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(iii) Acts of another Contractor in the performance of a contract with the Government,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(iv) Fires,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(v) Floods,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(vi) Epidemics,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(vii) Quarantine restrictions,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(viii) Strikes,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(ix) Freight embargoes,</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(x) Unusually severe weather, or</p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List3"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(xi) Delays of subcontractors or suppliers at any tier arising from causes other than normal weather beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of both the Contractor and the subcontractors or suppliers; and</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
