<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id203CEK0I0HS"
            rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.504</ph> 
         <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>Orders under multiple-award
contracts.<?FM MARKER [Why] Revise section 19.502-4.?></title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203CEL00UUI" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General.</i> In accordance
with section 1331 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2018-title15/html/USCODE-2018-title15-chap14A-sec644.htm"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 644</xref>(r)(2)),
contracting officers may, at their discretion, set aside orders
placed under multiple-award contracts for any of the small business
concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3).</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEM008PF" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>The
contracting officer shall state in the solicitation and resulting
contract whether order set-asides will be discretionary or mandatory
when the conditions in 19.502-2 are met at the time of order set-aside,
and the specific program eligibility requirements, as applicable,
are also then met.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEM00LPN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>When setting aside an order at or below
the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer may
set aside the order for any of the small business concerns identified
in 19.000(a)(3).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEM00M7Q" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>When setting aside an order above the
simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer shall
first consider setting aside the order for the small business socioeconomic
contracting programs (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, 8(a), HUBZone, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, and women-owned small business) before considering
a small business set-aside.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEM00M30" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>The contracting officer shall comply
with the specific program eligibility requirements identified in
this part in addition to the ordering procedures for a multiple-award
contract (for orders placed under the Federal Supply Schedules Program,
see 8.405-5; for orders placed under all other multiple-award contracts,
see 16.505).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203CEL0F0YK" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Orders under partial
set-aside contracts.</i>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEM0D0RO" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>Only
small business concerns awarded contracts for the portion(s) that
were set aside under the solicitation for the multiple-award contract
may compete for orders issued under those portion(s).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEN007E9" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>Small business awardees may compete
against other than small business awardees for an order issued under
the portion of the multiple-award contract that was not set aside,
if the small business received a contract award for the non-set-aside
portion.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203CEL0H0HT" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Orders under reserves.</i>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEN00Q4Y" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>The contracting officer may—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203CEN060QN" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>Set aside orders for any of the small business
concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3) when there are two or more contract awards
for that type of small business concern; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203CEN090BI" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>Issue orders directly to one small business
concern for work that it can perform when there is only one contract award
to any one type of small business concern identified in 19.000(a)(3).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203CEN00WXW" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>Small business awardees may compete
against other than small business awardees for an order that is
not set aside if the small business received a contract award for
the supplies or services being ordered.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>