<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1116122"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.104-3</ph> Application of standards.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d532e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d540e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Ability to obtain resources</i>. Except to the extent that a prospective contractor has sufficient resources or proposes to perform the contract by subcontracting, the contracting officer shall require acceptable evidence of the prospective contractor’s ability to obtain required resources (see <xref href="FAR-i1116081.dita#i1116081"
                        base="i1116081"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.104-1</xref>(a), (e), and (f)). Acceptable evidence normally consists of a commitment or explicit arrangement, that will be in existence at the time of contract award, to rent, purchase, or otherwise acquire the needed facilities, equipment, other resources, or personnel. Consideration of a prime contractor’s compliance with limitations on subcontracting shall take into account the time period covered by the contract base period or quantities plus option periods or quantities, if such options are considered when evaluating offers for award.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d540e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Satisfactory performance record</i>. A prospective contractor that is or recently has been seriously deficient in contract performance shall be presumed to be nonresponsible, unless the contracting officer determines that the circumstances were properly beyond the contractor’s control, or that the contractor has taken appropriate corrective action. Past failure to apply sufficient tenacity and perseverance to perform acceptably is strong evidence of nonresponsibility. Failure to meet the quality requirements of the contract is a significant factor to consider in determining satisfactory performance. The contracting officer shall consider the number of contracts involved and the extent of deficient performance in each contract when making this determination. If the pending contract requires a subcontracting plan pursuant to <xref href="FAR-i1100205.dita#i1100205"
                        base="i1100205"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.7</xref>, The Small Business Subcontracting Program, the contracting officer shall also consider the prospective contractor’s compliance with subcontracting plans under recent contracts.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d540e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Affiliated concerns</i>. Affiliated concerns (see “Concern” in <xref href="FAR-i1101793.dita#i1101793"
                        base="i1101793"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.001</xref> and “Affiliates” in <xref href="FAR-i1101807.dita#i1101807"
                        base="i1101807"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.101</xref>) are normally considered separate entities in determining whether the concern that is to perform the contract meets the applicable standards for responsibility. However, the contracting officer shall consider the affiliate’s past performance and integrity when they may adversely affect the prospective contractor’s responsibility.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d540e65" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
					          </p>
					          <ol id="d532e71" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d540e75" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small business concerns</i>. Upon making a determination of nonresponsibility with regard to a small business concern, the contracting officer shall refer the matter to the Small Business Administration, which will decide whether to issue a Certificate of Competency (see subpart <xref href="FAR-i1100603.dita#i1100603"
                              base="i1100603"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.6</xref>).</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d540e90" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A small business that is unable to comply with the limitations on subcontracting at <xref href="FAR-i1057730.dita#i1057730"
                              base="i1057730"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-14</xref> may be considered nonresponsible.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
