<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1125359"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">2.101</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d73e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d75e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   A
word or a term, defined in this section, has the same meaning throughout
this regulation (48 CFR chapter 1), unless-</p>
               <ol id="d73e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The context
in which the word or term is used clearly requires a different meaning;
or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Another FAR
part, subpart, or section provides a different definition for the
particular part or portion of the part.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d75e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   If a word
or term that is defined in this section is defined differently in
another part, subpart, or section of this regulation <ph class="- topic/ph ">(48 CFR chapter 1)</ph>, the
definition in—</p>
               <ol id="d73e53" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         This section includes a cross-reference
to the other definitions; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e69" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         That part,
subpart, or section applies to the word or term when used in that
part, subpart, or section.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e77" class="- topic/p ">“Acquisition”
means the acquiring by contract with appropriated funds of supplies
or services (including construction) by and for the use of the Federal
Government through purchase or lease, whether the supplies or services
are already in existence or must be created, developed, demonstrated,
and evaluated. Acquisition begins at the point when agency needs are
established and includes the description of requirements to satisfy
agency needs, solicitation and selection of sources, award of contracts,
contract financing, contract performance, contract administration,
and those technical and management functions directly related to
the process of fulfilling agency needs by contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e80" class="- topic/p ">“Acquisition
planning” means the process by which the efforts of all personnel
responsible for an acquisition are coordinated and integrated through
a comprehensive plan for fulfilling the agency need in a timely
manner and at a reasonable cost. It includes developing the overall
strategy for managing the acquisition.</p>
               <p id="d75e83" class="- topic/p ">“Activity
Address Code (AAC)” means a distinct six-position code consisting
of a combination of alpha and/or numeric characters assigned to
identify specific agency offices, units, activities, or organizations
by the General Services Administration for civilian agencies and
by the Department of Defense for defense agencies.</p>
               <p id="d75e87" class="- topic/p ">“Adequate
evidence” means information sufficient to support the reasonable
belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.</p>
               <p id="d75e90" class="- topic/p ">“Advisory and assistance services” means those
services provided under contract by nongovernmental sources to support or
improve: organizational policy development; decision-making; management
and administration; program and/or project management and administration;
or R&amp;D activities. It can also mean the furnishing of professional
advice or assistance rendered to improve the effectiveness of Federal
management processes or procedures (including those of an engineering and
technical nature). In rendering the foregoing services, outputs
may take the form of information, advice, opinions, alternatives,
analyses, evaluations, recommendations, training and the day-to-day
aid of support personnel needed for the successful performance of
ongoing Federal operations. All advisory and assistance services
are classified in one of the following definitional subdivisions:</p>
               <ol id="d73e90" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e97" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Management
and professional support services, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> contractual services
that provide assistance, advice or training for the efficient and
effective management and operation of organizations, activities
(including management and support services for R&amp;D activities),
or systems. These services are normally closely related to the basic
responsibilities and mission of the agency originating the requirement
for the acquisition of services by contract. Included are efforts that
support or contribute to improved organization of program management,
logistics management, project monitoring and reporting, data collection,
budgeting, accounting, performance auditing, and administrative
technical support for conferences and training programs.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e109" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Studies,
analyses and evaluations, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>contracted services that provide
organized, analytical assessments/evaluations in support of policy
development, decision-making, management, or administration. Included
are studies in support of R&amp;D activities. Also included are
acquisitions of models, methodologies, and related software supporting studies,
analyses or evaluations.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e121" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Engineering
and technical services, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>contractual services used to
support the program office during the acquisition cycle by providing
such services as systems engineering and technical direction (see <xref href="FAR-i1115013.dita#i1115013"
                              base="i1115013"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">9.505-1</xref>(b)) to ensure
the effective operation and maintenance of a weapon system or major
system as defined in OMB CircularNo.A-109 or to provide direct support
of a weapon system that is essential to research, development, production,
operation or maintenance of the system.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e135" class="- topic/p ">“Affiliates”
means associated business concerns or individuals if, directly or
indirectly-</p>
               <ol id="d73e180" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e142" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Either one controls or can control
the other; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e151" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A third
party controls or can control both.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e159" class="- topic/p ">“Agency
head” or “head of the agency” means the Secretary, Attorney General,
Administrator, Governor, Chairperson, or other chief official of
an executive agency, unless otherwise indicated, including any deputy
or assistant chief official of an executive agency.</p>
               <p id="d75e163" class="- topic/p ">“Alternate”
means a substantive variation of a basic provision or clause prescribed
for use in a defined circumstance. It adds wording to, deletes wording
from, or substitutes specified wording for a portion of the basic
provision or clause. The alternate version of a provision or clause
is the basic provision or clause as changed by the addition, deletion,
or substitution (see <xref href="FAR-i1064672.dita#i1064672"
                        base="i1064672"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.105</xref>(a)).</p>
               <p id="d75e169" class="- topic/p ">“Architect-engineer services,” as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 1102</xref>, means—</p>
               <ol id="d73e217" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e179" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Professional
services of an architectural or engineering nature, as defined by
State law, if applicable, that are required to be performed or approved
by a person licensed, registered, or certified to provide those
services;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e188" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Professional
services of an architectural or engineering nature performed by
contract that are associated with research, planning, development,
design, construction, alteration, or repair of real property; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e197" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Those other
professional services of an architectural or engineering nature,
or incidental services, that members of the architectural and engineering
professions (and individuals in their employ) may logically or justifiably
perform, including studies, investigations, surveying and mapping,
tests, evaluations, consultations, comprehensive planning, program
management, conceptual designs, plans and specifications, value
engineering, construction phase services, soils engineering, drawing
reviews, preparation of operating and maintenance manuals, and other
related services.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e205" class="- topic/p ">“Assignment of
claims” means the transfer or making over by the contractor to a
bank, trust company, or other financing institution, as security
for a loan to the contractor, of its right to be paid by the Government
for contract performance.</p>
               <p id="d75e208" class="- topic/p ">“Assisted acquisition”
means a type of interagency acquisition where a servicing agency
performs acquisition activities on a requesting agency's behalf,
such as awarding and administering a contract, task order, or delivery
order.</p>
               <p id="d75e211" class="- topic/p ">“Basic research” means that research
directed toward increasing knowledge in science. The primary aim
of basic research is a fuller knowledge or understanding of the
subject under study, rather than any practical application of that
knowledge.</p>
               <p id="d75e215" class="- topic/p ">“Best value” means the expected
outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government's estimation,
provides the greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement.</p>
               <p id="d75e218" class="- topic/p ">“Bid sample” means a product sample required
to be submitted by an offeror to show characteristics of the offered
products that cannot adequately be described by specifications,
purchase descriptions, or the solicitation (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>balance,
facility of use, or pattern).</p>
               <p id="d75e224" class="- topic/p ">“Biobased product”
means a product determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture
to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed)
that is composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological
products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and
forestry materials.</p>
               <p id="d75e227" class="- topic/p ">“Broad agency announcement”
means a general announcement of an agency’s research interest including
criteria for selecting proposals and soliciting the participation
of all offerors capable of satisfying the Government’s needs (see <xref href="FAR-i1120068.dita#i1120068"
                        base="i1120068"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">6.102</xref>(d)(2)).</p>
               <p id="d75e233" class="- topic/p ">“Building or work” means construction activity
as distinguished from manufacturing, furnishing of materials, or
servicing and maintenance work. The terms include, without limitation,
buildings, structures, and improvements of all types, such as bridges,
dams, plants, highways, parkways, streets, subways, tunnels, sewers,
mains, power lines, pumping stations, heavy generators, railways,
airports, terminals, docks, piers, wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys,
jetties, breakwaters, levees, canals, dredging, shoring, rehabilitation
and reactivation of plants, scaffolding, drilling, blasting, excavating,
clearing, and landscaping. The manufacture or furnishing of materials,
articles, supplies, or equipment (whether or not a Federal or State
agency acquires title to such materials, articles, supplies, or
equipment during the course of the manufacture or furnishing, or
owns the materials from which they are manufactured or furnished)
is not “building” or “work” within the meaning of this definition
unless conducted in connection with and at the site of such building
or work as is described in the foregoing sentence, or under the
United States Housing Act of 1937 and the Housing Act of 1949 in
the construction or development of the project.</p>  
               <p id="d75e236" class="- topic/p ">“Bundling”—</p>
               <ol id="d73e281" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e244" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means
a subset of consolidation that combines two or more requirements
for supplies or services, previously provided or performed under
separate smaller contracts (see paragraph (2) of this definition),
into a solicitation for a single contract, a multiple-award contract,
or a task or delivery order that is likely to be unsuitable for
award to a small business concern (even if it is suitable for award
to a small business with a Small Business Teaming Arrangement) due
to—</p>
                     <ol id="d73e291" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e254" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               The
diversity, size, or specialized nature of the elements of the performance
specified;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e263" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The aggregate
dollar value of the anticipated award;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e272" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               The geographical
dispersion of the contract performance sites; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e281" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Any combination
of the factors described in paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of
this definition.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e292" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         “Separate
smaller contract” as used in this definition, means a contract that
has been performed by one or more small business concerns or that
was suitable for award to one or more small business concerns.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e301" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         This definition
does not apply to a contract that will be awarded and performed
entirely outside of the United States.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e309" class="- topic/p ">“Business
unit” means any segment of an organization, or an entire business
organization that is not divided into segments.</p>
               <p id="d75e312" class="- topic/p ">“Certified
cost or pricing data” means “cost or pricing data” that were required
to be submitted in accordance with FAR <xref href="FAR-i1106066.dita#i1106066"
                        base="i1106066"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.403-4</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1106106.dita#i1106106"
                        base="i1106106"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.403-5</xref> and have been
certified, or is required to be certified, in accordance with <xref href="FAR-i1106384.dita#i1106384"
                        base="i1106384"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.406-2</xref>. This certification
states that, to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief, the
cost or pricing data is accurate, complete, and current as of a
date certain before contract award. Cost or pricing data is required
to be certified in certain procurements (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 2306a</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 35</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e330" class="- topic/p ">“Change-of-name agreement” means a legal instrument
executed by the contractor and the Government that recognizes the
legal change of name of the contractor without disturbing the original
contractual rights and obligations of the parties.</p>
               <p id="d75e333" class="- topic/p ">“Change
order” means a written order, signed by the contracting officer,
directing the contractor to make a change that the Changes clause
authorizes the contracting officer to order without the contractor’s
consent.</p>
               <p id="d75e336" class="- topic/p ">“Chief Acquisition Officer” means
an executive level acquisition official responsible for agency performance
of acquisition activities and acquisition programs created pursuant
to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1702</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e343" class="- topic/p ">“Chief of mission” means the principal officer
in charge of a diplomatic mission of the United States or of a United
States office abroad which is designated by the Secretary of State
as diplomatic in nature, including any individual assigned under
section 502(c) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465)
to be temporarily in charge of such a mission or office.</p>
               <p id="d75e346" class="- topic/p ">“Claim” means a written demand or written assertion
by one of the contracting parties seeking, as a matter of right,
the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation
of contract terms, or other relief arising under or relating to
the contract. However, a written demand or written assertion by
the contractor seeking the payment of money exceeding $100,000 is
not a claim under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 71</xref>,
Contract Disputes, until certified as required by the statute. A
voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is not
in dispute when submitted is not a claim. The submission may be
converted to a claim, by written notice to the contracting officer
as provided in <xref href="FAR-i1080231.dita#i1080231"
                        base="i1080231"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">33.206</xref>(a),
if it is disputed either as to liability or amount or is not acted
upon in a reasonable time.</p>
               <p id="d75e355" class="- topic/p ">“Classified acquisition”
means an acquisition in which offerors must have access to classified
information to properly submit an offer or quotation, to understand
the performance requirements, or to perform the contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e358" class="- topic/p ">“Classified contract” means any contract in which
the contractor or its employees must have access to classified information
during contract performance. A contract may be a classified contract
even though the contract document itself is unclassified.</p>
               <p id="d75e361" class="- topic/p ">“Classified information” means any knowledge
that can be communicated or any documentary material, regardless
of its physical form or characteristics, that—</p>
               <ol id="d73e405" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e368" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d73e415" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e378" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Is
owned by, is produced by or for, or is under the control of the
United States Government; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e387" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Has been
classified by the Department of Energy as privately generated restricted
data following the procedures in 10 CFR 1045.21; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e398" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Must be
protected against unauthorized disclosure according to Executive
Order12958, Classified National Security Information, April 7,1995,
or classified in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e407" class="- topic/p ">“Cognizant Federal agency” means the Federal
agency that, on behalf of all Federal agencies, is responsible for
establishing final indirect cost rates and forward pricing rates,
if applicable, and administering cost accounting standards for all contracts
in a business unit.</p>
               <p id="d75e410" class="- topic/p ">“Combatant commander” means
the commander of a unified or specified combatant command established
in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 161.</p>
               <p id="d75e413" class="- topic/p ">“Commercial
component” means any component that is a commercial item.</p>
               <p id="d75e416" class="- topic/p ">“Commercial computer software” means any computer
software that is a commercial item.</p>
               <p id="d75e419" class="- topic/p ">“Commercial
item” means</p>
               <ol id="d73e463" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e426" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Any item, other than real property,
that is of a type customarily used by the general public or by non-governmental entities
for purposes other than governmental purposes, and-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e473" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e436" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Has
been sold, leased, or licensed to the general public; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e445" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Has been
offered for sale, lease, or license to the general public;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e456" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Any item
that evolved from an item described in paragraph (1) of this definition
through advances in technology or performance and that is not yet
available in the commercial marketplace, but will be available in
the commercial marketplace in time to satisfy the delivery requirements
under a Government solicitation;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e465" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Any item
that would satisfy a criterion expressed in paragraphs(1) or (2)
of this definition, but for-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e512" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e475" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Modifications of a type customarily
available in the commercial marketplace; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e484" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Minor modifications
of a type not customarily available in the commercial marketplace
made to meet Federal Government requirements. Minor modifications
means modifications that do not significantly alter the nongovernmental
function or essential physical characteristics of an item or component,
or change the purpose of a process. Factors to be considered in
determining whether a modification is minor include the value and
size of the modification and the comparative value and size of the
final product. Dollar values and percentages may be used as guideposts,
but are not conclusive evidence that a modification is minor;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e495" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Any combination
of items meeting the requirements of paragraphs(1), (2), (3), or
(5) of this definition that are of a type customarily combined and
sold in combination to the general public;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e504" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         Installation
services, maintenance services, repair services, training services,
and other services if-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e551" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e514" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Such services are procured for
support of an item referred to in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4)
of this definition, regardless of whether such services are provided
by the same source or at the same time as the item; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e523" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The source
of such services provides similar services contemporaneously to
the general public under terms and conditions similar to those offered
to the Federal Government;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e535" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         Services
of a type offered and sold competitively in substantial quantities
in the commercial marketplace based on established catalog or market
prices for specific tasks performed or specific outcomes to be achieved
and under standard commercial terms and conditions. For purposes
of these services-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e582" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e545" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               “Catalog price” means a price
included in a catalog, price list, schedule, or other form that
is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or vendor, is either
published or otherwise available for inspection by customers, and
states prices at which sales are currently, or were last, made to
a significant number of buyers constituting the general public;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e554" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               “Market
prices” means current prices that are established in the course
of ordinary trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain and
that can be substantiated through competition or from sources independent
of the offerors.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e565" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         Any item,
combination of items, or service referred to in paragraphs(1) through
(6) of this definition, notwithstanding the fact that the item,
combination of items, or service is transferred between or among
separate divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor;
or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e574" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                         A nondevelopmental
item, if the procuring agency determines the item was developed
exclusively at private expense and sold in substantial quantities,
on a competitive basis, to multiple State and local governments.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e583" class="- topic/p ">“Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS)
item—”</p>
               <ol id="d73e626" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e590" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means any item of supply (including
construction material) that is–</p>
                     <ol id="d73e636" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e600" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               A commercial
item (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition in this section);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e609" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Sold in
substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e618" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Offered
to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier,
without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the
commercial marketplace; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e629" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Does not
include bulk cargo, as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">46 U.S.C. 40102(4)</xref>,
such as agricultural products and petroleum products.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e640" class="- topic/p ">“Common item” means material that is common to
the applicable Government contract and the contractor’s other work.</p>
               <p id="d75e643" class="- topic/p ">“Component” means any item supplied to the Government
as part of an end item or of another component, except that for use
in—</p>
               <ol id="d73e686" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e650" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="FAR-i1093771.dita#i1093771"
                              base="i1093771"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  25</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="FAR-i1093413.dita#i1093413"
                              base="i1093413"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e665" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="FAR-i1053372.dita#i1053372"
                              base="i1053372"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1053446.dita#i1053446"
                              base="i1053446"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="FAR-i1053372.dita#i1053372"
                              base="i1053372"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref>(a) and <xref href="FAR-i1053446.dita#i1053446"
                              base="i1053446"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>(a);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e686" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="FAR-i1053788.dita#i1053788"
                              base="i1053788"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-9</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1054019.dita#i1054019"
                              base="i1054019"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-11</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="FAR-i1053788.dita#i1053788"
                              base="i1053788"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-9</xref>(a) and <xref href="FAR-i1054019.dita#i1054019"
                              base="i1054019"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-11</xref>(a); and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e707" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="FAR-i1054449.dita#i1054449"
                              base="i1054449"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-21</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1054633.dita#i1054633"
                              base="i1054633"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-23</xref>, see the definition
in <xref href="FAR-i1054449.dita#i1054449"
                              base="i1054449"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-21</xref>(a) and <xref href="FAR-i1054633.dita#i1054633"
                              base="i1054633"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-23</xref>(a).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e727" class="- topic/p ">“Computer database” or “database” means a collection
of recorded information in a form capable of, and for the purpose of,
being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term
does not include computer software.</p>
               <p id="d75e731" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph ">“Computer software” —</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d73e774" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e741" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means</p>
                     <ol id="d73e784" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e751" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Computer programs that comprise
a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of
the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform
a specific operation or series of operations; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e760" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Recorded information comprising
source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow
charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the computer
program to be produced, created, or compiled.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e771" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Does not
include computer databases or computer software documentation.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e779" class="- topic/p ">“Computer software documentation” means owner’s
manuals, user’s manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions,
and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain
the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions
for using the software.</p>
               <p id="d75e782" class="- topic/p ">“Consent to subcontract”
means the contracting officer’s written consent for the prime contractor
to enter into a particular subcontract.</p>
               <p id="d75e785" class="- topic/p ">“Consolidation
or consolidated requirement”—</p>
               <ol id="d73e827" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e792" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means a solicitation
for a single contract, a multiple-award contract, a task order,
or a delivery order to satisfy-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e837" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e802" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Two or more
requirements of the Federal agency for supplies or services that
have been provided to or performed for the Federal agency under
two or more separate contracts, each of which was lower in cost
than the total cost of the contract for which offers are solicited;
or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e811" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Requirements
of the Federal agency for construction projects to be performed
at two or more discrete sites.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e822" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         “Separate
contract” as used in this definition, means a contract that has
been performed by any business, including small and other than small
business concerns.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e831" class="- topic/p ">“Construction”
means construction, alteration, or repair (including dredging, excavating,
and painting) of buildings, structures, or other real property.
For purposes of this definition, the terms “buildings, structures,
or other real property” include, but are not limited to, improvements
of all types, such as bridges, dams, plants, highways, parkways,
streets, subways, tunnels, sewers, mains, power lines, cemeteries,
pumping stations, railways, airport facilities, terminals, docks, piers,
wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys, jetties, breakwaters, levees,
canals, and channels. Construction does not include the manufacture,
production, furnishing, construction, alteration, repair, processing,
or assembling of vessels, aircraft, or other kinds of personal property
(except that for use in subpart <xref href="FAR-i1097568.dita#i1097568"
                        base="i1097568"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.5</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1097572.dita#i1097572"
                        base="i1097572"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.502</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e840" class="- topic/p ">“Contiguous
United States (CONUS)” means the 48 contiguous States and the District
of Columbia.</p>
               <p id="d75e843" class="- topic/p ">“Contingency operation” (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C.101(a)(13)</xref>)
means a military operation that-</p>
               <ol id="d73e887" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e853" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Is designated
by the Secretary of Defense as an operation in which members of
the armed forces are or may become involved in military actions,
operations, or hostilities against an enemy of the United States
or against an opposing military force; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e862" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Results
in the call or order to, or retention on, active duty of members
of the uniformed services under sections<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref "> 688</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12301(a)</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12302</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12304</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12304(a)</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12305</xref>, or <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12406</xref> of<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref "> title 10</xref> of the United
States Code, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">Chapter 15 of title 10</xref> of
the United States Code, or any other provision of law during a war
or during a national emergency declared by the President or Congress.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e898" class="- topic/p ">“Continued portion of the contract” means the
portion of a contract that the contractor must continue to perform
following a partial termination.</p>
               <p id="d75e901" class="- topic/p ">“Contract”
means a mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller
to furnish the supplies or services (including construction) and
the buyer to pay for them. It includes all types of commitments
that obligate the Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds
and that, except as otherwise authorized, are in writing. In addition
to bilateral instruments, contracts include (but are not limited
to) awards and notices of awards; job orders or task letters issued
under basic ordering agreements; letter contracts; orders, such
as purchase orders, under which the contract becomes effective by
written acceptance or performance; and bilateral contract modifications.
Contracts do not include grants and cooperative agreements covered
by <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C.6301</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">et
seq.</i> For discussion of various types of contracts, see <xref href="FAR-i1105247.dita#i1105247"
                        base="i1105247"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  16</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e914" class="- topic/p ">“Contract administration office” means an office
that performs-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e921" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Assigned
postaward functions related to the administration of contracts;
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e930" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Assigned
preaward functions.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e938" class="- topic/p ">“Contract clause”
or “clause” means a term or condition used in contracts or in both
solicitations and contracts, and applying after contract award or
both before and after award.</p>
               <p id="d75e941" class="- topic/p ">“Contract modification”
means any written change in the terms of a contract (see <xref href="FAR-i1074036.dita#i1074036"
                        base="i1074036"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">43.103</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e947" class="- topic/p ">“Contracting”
means purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise obtaining supplies
or services from nonfederal sources. Contracting includes description
(but not determination) of supplies and services required, selection
and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contracts,
and all phases of contract administration. It does not include making
grants or cooperative agreements.</p>
               <p id="d75e950" class="- topic/p ">“Contracting
activity” means an element of an agency designated by the agency
head and delegated broad authority regarding acquisition functions.</p>
               <p id="d75e954" class="- topic/p ">“Contracting office” means an office that awards
or executes a contract for supplies or services and performs postaward functions
not assigned to a contract administration office (except for use
in <xref href="FAR-i1069742.dita#i1069742"
                        base="i1069742"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  48</xref>, see also <xref href="FAR-i1069469.dita#i1069469"
                        base="i1069469"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">48.001</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e963" class="- topic/p ">“Contracting
officer” means a person with the authority to enter into, administer,
and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings.
The term includes certain authorized representatives of the contracting
officer acting within the limits of their authority as delegated
by the contracting officer. “Administrative contracting officer
(ACO)” refers to a contracting officer who is administering contracts.
“Termination contracting officer (TCO)” refers to a contracting
officer who is settling terminated contracts. A single contracting
officer may be responsible for duties in any or all of these areas.
Reference in this regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) to administrative
contracting officer or termination contracting officer does not-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1000" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e970" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Require
that a duty be performed at a particular office or activity; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e979" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Restrict
in any way a contracting officer in the performance of any duty
properly assigned.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e987" class="- topic/p ">“Contracting officer’s
representative (COR)” means an individual, including a contracting
officer’s technical representative (COTR), designated and authorized
in writing by the contracting officer to perform specific technical
or administrative functions.</p>
               <p id="d75e990" class="- topic/p ">“Conviction” means
a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent
jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, and includes
a conviction entered upon a plea of nolo contendere. For use in <xref href="FAR-i1094537.dita#i1094537"
                        base="i1094537"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  23.5</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1094562.dita#i1094562"
                        base="i1094562"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">23.503</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e999" class="- topic/p ">“Cost or pricing data” (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C.2306a(h)(1)</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 35</xref>)
means all facts that, as of the date of price agreement, or, if
applicable, an earlier date agreed upon between the parties that
is as close as practicable to the date of agreement on price, prudent
buyers and sellers would reasonably expect to affect price negotiations
significantly. Cost or pricing data are factual, not judgmental;
and are verifiable. While they do not indicate the accuracy of the
prospective contractor’s judgment about estimated future costs or
projections, they do include the data forming the basis for that
judgment. Cost or pricing data are more than historical accounting
data; they are all the facts that can be reasonably expected to
contribute to the soundness of estimates of future costs and to
the validity of determinations of costs already incurred. They also
include, but are not limited to, such factors as-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1042" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1013" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Vendor
quotations;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1022" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Nonrecurring
costs;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1031" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Information
on changes in production methods and in production or purchasing
volume;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1040" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Data supporting
projections of business prospects and objectives and related operations
costs;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1049" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         Unit-cost
trends such as those associated with labor efficiency;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1059" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         Make-or-buy
decisions;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1068" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         Estimated
resources to attain business goals; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1077" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                         Information
on management decisions that could have a significant bearing on
costs.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1085" class="- topic/p ">“Cost realism” means that
the costs in an offeror’s proposal-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1121" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1092" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Are realistic
for the work to be performed;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1101" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Reflect
a clear understanding of the requirements; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1110" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Are consistent
with the various elements of the offeror’s technical proposal.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1118" class="- topic/p ">“Cost sharing” means an explicit arrangement
under which the contractor bears some of the burden of reasonable,
allocable, and allowable contract cost.</p>
               <p id="d75e1121" class="- topic/p ">“Customs
territory of the United States” means the 50 States, the District
of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.</p>
               <p id="d75e1124" class="- topic/p ">“Data other
than certified cost or pricing data” means pricing data, cost data,
and judgmental information necessary for the contracting officer
to determine a fair and reasonable price or to determine cost realism.
Such data may include the identical types of data as certified cost
or pricing data, consistent with <xref href="FAR-i1106593.dita#i1106593/i1106753"
                        base="i1106753"
                        outputclass="fm:Table"
                        class="- topic/xref ">Table  15-2</xref> of <xref href="FAR-i1106593.dita#i1106593"
                        base="i1106593"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref>, but without the
certification. The data may also include, for example, sales data
and any information reasonably required to explain the offeror’s
estimating process, including, but not limited to–</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1138" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The judgmental
factors applied and the mathematical or other methods used in the
estimate, including those used in projecting from known data; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1147" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The nature
and amount of any contingencies included in the proposed price.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1155" class="- topic/p ">“Day” means, unless otherwise specified, a calendar
day.</p>
               <p id="d75e1158" class="- topic/p ">“Debarment” means action taken by a debarring
official under <xref href="FAR-i1115300.dita#i1115300"
                        base="i1115300"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.406</xref> to
exclude a contractor from Government contracting and Government-approved
subcontracting for a reasonable, specified period; a contractor
that is excluded is “debarred.”</p>
               <p id="d75e1164" class="- topic/p ">“Delivery
order” means an order for supplies placed against an established
contract or with Government sources.</p>
               <p id="d75e1167" class="- topic/p ">“Depreciation”
means a charge to current operations that distributes the cost of
a tangible capital asset, less estimated residual value, over the
estimated useful life of the asset in a systematic and logical manner.
It does not involve a process of valuation. Useful life refers to
the prospective period of economic usefulness in a particular contractor’s
operations as distinguished from physical life; it is evidenced
by the actual or estimated retirement and replacement practice of
the contractor.</p>
               <p id="d75e1170" class="- topic/p ">“Descriptive literature” means
information provided by an offeror, such as cuts, illustrations,
drawings, and brochures, that shows a product’s characteristics
or construction of a product or explains its operation. The term
includes only that information needed to evaluate the acceptability
of the product and excludes other information for operating or maintaining
the product.</p>
               <p id="d75e1174" class="- topic/p ">“Design-to-cost” means a concept
that establishes cost elements as management goals to achieve the
best balance between life-cycle cost, acceptable performance, and
schedule. Under this concept, cost is a design constraint during
the design and development phases and a management discipline throughout
the acquisition and operation of the system or equipment.</p>
               <p id="d75e1177" class="- topic/p ">“Designated operational area” means a geographic
area designated by the combatant commander or subordinate joint
force commander for the conduct or support of specified military
operations.</p>
               <p id="d75e1180" class="- topic/p ">“Direct acquisition” means a type
of interagency acquisition where a requesting agency places an order
directly against a servicing agency’s indefinite-delivery contract.
The servicing agency manages the indefinite-delivery contract but
does not participate in the placement or administration of an order.</p>
               <p id="d75e1183" class="- topic/p ">“Direct cost” means any cost that is identified
specifically with a particular final cost objective. Direct costs
are not limited to items that are incorporated in the end product
as material or labor. Costs identified specifically with a contract
are direct costs of that contract. All costs identified specifically
with other final cost objectives of the contractor are direct costs
of those cost objectives.</p>
               <p id="d75e1186" class="- topic/p ">“Disaster Response
Registry” means a voluntary registry of contractors who are willing
to perform debris removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction,
and other disaster or emergency relief activities established in
accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">6 U.S.C. 796</xref>,
Registry of Disaster Response Contractors. The Registry contains
information on contractors who are willing to perform disaster or
emergency relief activities within the United States and its outlying
areas. The Registry is accessed via the Internet at <xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov,</xref> Search
Records, Advanced Search, Disaster Response Registry Search. (See <xref href="FAR-i1090608.dita#i1090608"
                        base="i1090608"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">26.205</xref>.)</p>
               <p id="d75e1198" class="- topic/p ">“Drug-free
workplace” means the site(s) for the performance of work done by
the contractor in connection with a specific contract where employees
of the contractor are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture,
distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.</p>
               <p id="d75e1202" class="- topic/p ">“Earned value management system” means a project
management tool that effectively integrates the project scope of
work with cost, schedule and performance elements for optimum project
planning and control. The qualities and operating characteristics
of an earned value management system are described in Electronic
Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748), Earned Value Management
Systems. (See OMB Circular A-11, <xref href="FAR-i1119226.dita#i1119226"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  7</xref>.)</p>
               <p id="d75e1208" class="- topic/p ">“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small
business (EDWOSB) concern”-(see definition of “Women-Owned Small
Business (WOSB) Program” in this section).</p>
               <p id="d75e1211" class="- topic/p ">“Effective
date of termination” means the date on which the notice of termination
requires the contractor to stop performance under the contract.
If the contractor receives the termination notice after the date
fixed for termination, then the effective date of termination means
the date the contractor receives the notice.</p>
               <p id="d75e1214" class="- topic/p ">“Electronic
and information technology (EIT)” has the same meaning as “information
technology” except EIT also includes any equipment or interconnected
system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion,
or duplication of data or information. The term EIT, includes, but
is not limited to, telecommunication products (such as telephones),
information kiosks and transaction machines, worldwide websites,
multimedia, and office equipment (such as copiers and fax machines).</p>
               <p id="d75e1217" class="- topic/p ">“Electronic commerce” means electronic techniques
for accomplishing business transactions including electronic mail
or messaging, World Wide Web technology, electronic bulletin boards,
purchase cards, electronic funds transfer, and electronic data interchange.</p>
               <p id="d75e1220" class="- topic/p ">“Electronic data interchange (EDI)” means a
technique for electronically transferring and storing formatted
information between computers utilizing established and published
formats and codes, as authorized by the applicable Federal Information
Processing Standards.</p>
               <p id="d75e1224" class="- topic/p ">“Electronic Funds Transfer
(EFT)” means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated
by cash, check, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through
an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for
the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial
institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes Automated
Clearing House transfers, Fedwire transfers, and transfers made
at automatic teller machines and point-of-sale terminals. For purposes
of compliance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C.3332</xref> and
implementing regulations at 31 CFR part 208, the term “electronic
funds transfer” includes a Governmentwide commercial purchase card
transaction.</p>
               <p id="d75e1230" class="- topic/p ">“Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT)
indicator” means a four-character suffix to the unique entity identifier.
The suffix is assigned at the discretion of the commercial, nonprofit,
or Government entity to establish additional System for Award Management
records for identifying alternative EFT accounts (see <xref href="FAR-i1080713.dita#i1080713"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.11</xref>)
for the same entity.</p>
               <p id="d75e1236" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph ">“Emergency,” as used in <xref href="FAR-i1119977.dita#i1119977"
                           base="i1119977"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">6.208</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1111870.dita#i1111870"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">13.201</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1111260.dita#i1111260"
                           base="i1111260"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">13.500</xref>, <xref href="FAR-id1617MD0003V.dita#id1617MD0003V"
                           base="id1617MD0003V"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">18.001</xref>, <xref href="FAR-id1617MD0008D.dita#id1617MD0008D"
                           base="id1617MD0008D"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">18.202</xref>, <xref href="FAR-id1617MD000PB.dita#id1617MD000PB"
                           base="id1617MD000PB"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">18.203</xref>, and subpart <xref href="FAR-i1090563.dita#i1090563"
                           base="i1090563"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">26.2</xref>, means any occasion
or instance for which, in the determination of the President, Federal
assistance is needed to supplement State and local efforts and capabilities
to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety,
or to lessen or avert the threat of a catastrophe in any part of
the United States (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5122&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>).</ph>
               </p>
               <p id="d75e1267" class="- topic/p ">“End product” means supplies delivered under
a line item of a Government contract, except for use in <xref href="FAR-i1093771.dita#i1093771"
                        base="i1093771"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  25</xref> and the associated
clauses at <xref href="FAR-i1053372.dita#i1053372"
                        base="i1053372"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1053446.dita#i1053446"
                        base="i1053446"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>, and <xref href="FAR-i1053648.dita#i1053648"
                        base="i1053648"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-5</xref>, see the definitions
in <xref href="FAR-i1093413.dita#i1093413"
                        base="i1093413"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1053372.dita#i1053372"
                        base="i1053372"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-1</xref>(a), <xref href="FAR-i1053446.dita#i1053446"
                        base="i1053446"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-3</xref>(a), and <xref href="FAR-i1053648.dita#i1053648"
                        base="i1053648"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.225-5</xref>(a).</p>
               <p id="d75e1295" class="- topic/p ">“Energy-efficient product”-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1286" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1302" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means a
product that-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e1296" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1312" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Meets Department of Energy and
Environmental Protection Agency criteria for use of the Energy Star
trademark label; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1321" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Is in
the upper 25 percent of efficiency for all similar products as designated
by the Department of Energy’s Federal Energy Management Program.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1332" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         As used
in this definition, the term “product” does not include any energy-consuming
product or system designed or procured for combat or combat-related
missions (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 8259b</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1344" class="- topic/p ">“Energy-efficient standby power devices” means
products that use-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1334" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1351" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         External standby power devices,
or that contain an internal standby power function; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1360" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         No more
than one watt of electricity in their standby power consuming mode
or meet recommended low standby levels as designated by the Department
of Energy Federal Energy Management Program.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1368" class="- topic/p ">“Energy-savings performance contract” means
a contract that requires the contractor to-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1358" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1375" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Perform services
for the design, acquisition, financing, installation, testing, operation,
and where appropriate, maintenance and repair, of an identified
energy conservation measure or series of measures at one or more
locations;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1384" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Incur the
costs of implementing the energy savings measures, including at
least the cost (if any) incurred in making energy audits, acquiring
and installing equipment, and training personnel in exchange for
a predetermined share of the value of the energy savings directly
resulting from implementation of such measures during the term of
the contract; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1393" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Guarantee
future energy and cost savings to the Government.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1401" class="- topic/p ">“Environmentally preferable” means products
or services that have a lesser or reduced effect on human health
and the environment when compared with competing products or services
that serve the same purpose. This comparison may consider raw materials
acquisition, production, manufacturing, packaging, distribution,
reuse, operation, maintenance, or disposal of the product or service.</p>
               <p id="d75e1404" class="- topic/p ">“Excess personal property” means any personal
property under the control of a Federal agency that the agency head
determines is not required for its needs or for the discharge of
its responsibilities.</p>
               <p id="d75e1408" class="- topic/p ">“Executive agency” means
an executive department, a military department, or any independent
establishment within the meaning of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5 U.S.C.101</xref>, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">102</xref>, and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">104(1)</xref>, respectively,
and any wholly owned Government corporation within the meaning of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C.9101</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e1423" class="- topic/p ">“Facilities capital cost of money” means “cost
of money as an element of the cost of facilities capital” as used
at 48 CFR 9904.414-Cost Accounting Standard-Cost of Money as an
Element of the Cost of Facilities Capital.</p>
               <p id="d75e1426" class="- topic/p ">“Federal
agency” means any executive agency or any independent establishment
in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except
the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol,
and any activities under the Architect’s direction).</p>
               <p id="d75e1429" class="- topic/p ">“Federally-controlled facilities” means—</p>
               <ol id="d73e1419" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1436" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Federally-owned
buildings or leased space, whether for single or multi-tenant occupancy,
and its grounds and approaches, all or any portion of which is under
the jurisdiction, custody or control of a department or agency;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1445" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Federally-controlled
commercial space shared with non-government tenants. For example,
if a department or agency leased the 10th floor of a commercial
building, the Directive applies to the 10th floor only;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1454" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Government-owned,
contractor-operated facilities, including laboratories engaged in
national defense research and production activities; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1463" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Facilities
under a management and operating contract, such as for the operation,
maintenance, or support of a Government-owned or Government-controlled
research, development, special production, or testing establishment.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1471" class="- topic/p ">“Federally-controlled information system” means
an information system (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">44 U.S.C. 3502(8)</xref> used
or operated by a Federal agency, or a contractor or other organization
on behalf of the agency (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">44 U.S.C. 3544(a)(1)(A)</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e1481" class="- topic/p ">“Federally Funded Research and Development Centers
(FFRDC’s)” means activities that are sponsored under a broad charter
by a Government agency (or agencies) for the purpose of performing,
analyzing, integrating, supporting, and/or managing basic or applied
research and/or development, and that receive 70 percent or more
of their financial support from the Government; and-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1470" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1488" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         A
long-term relationship is contemplated;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1497" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Most or
all of the facilities are owned or funded by the Government; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1506" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The FFRDC
has access to Government and supplier data, employees, and facilities
beyond that common in a normal contractual relationship.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1514" class="- topic/p ">“Final indirect cost rate” means the indirect
cost rate established and agreed upon by the Government and the
contractor as not subject to change. It is usually established after
the close of the contractor’s fiscal year (unless the parties decide upon
a different period) to which it applies. For cost-reimbursement
research and development contracts with educational institutions,
it may be predetermined; that is, established for a future period
on the basis of cost experience with similar contracts, together
with supporting data.</p>
               <p id="d75e1517" class="- topic/p ">“First article” means
a preproduction model, initial production sample, test sample, first
lot, pilot lot, or pilot models.</p>
               <p id="d75e1520" class="- topic/p ">“First article
testing” means testing and evaluating the first article for conformance
with specified contract requirements before or in the initial stage
of production.</p>
               <p id="d75e1523" class="- topic/p ">“F.o.b.” means free on board.
This term is used in conjunction with a physical point to determine-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1512" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1531" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The
responsibility and basis for payment of freight charges; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1540" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Unless
otherwise agreed, the point where title for goods passes to the
buyer or consignee.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1548" class="- topic/p ">“F.o.b. destination”
means free on board at destination; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> the seller or consignor
delivers the goods on seller’s or consignor’s conveyance at destination.
Unless the contract provides otherwise, the seller or consignor
is responsible for the cost of shipping and risk of loss. For use
in the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1046022.dita#i1046022"
                        base="i1046022"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-34</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1046022.dita#i1046022"
                        base="i1046022"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-34</xref>(a).</p>
               <p id="d75e1560" class="- topic/p ">“F.o.b. origin” means free on board at origin; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>the
seller or consignor places the goods on the conveyance. Unless the contract
provides otherwise, the buyer or consignee is responsible for the
cost of shipping and risk of loss. For use in the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1045849.dita#i1045849"
                        base="i1045849"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-29</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1045849.dita#i1045849"
                        base="i1045849"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.247-29</xref>(a).</p>
               <p id="d75e1572" class="- topic/p ">“<ph class="- topic/ph ">F.o.b.”...</ph> (For
other types of F.o.b., see <xref href="FAR-i1070167.dita#i1070167"
                        base="i1070167"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">47.303</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e1581" class="- topic/p ">“Forward pricing rate agreement” means a written
agreement negotiated between a contractor and the Government to make
certain rates available during a specified period for use in pricing
contracts or modifications. These rates represent reasonable projections
of specific costs that are not easily estimated for, identified
with, or generated by a specific contract, contract end item, or
task. These projections may include rates for such things as labor,
indirect costs, material obsolescence and usage, spare parts provisioning,
and material handling.</p>
               <p id="d75e1584" class="- topic/p ">“Forward pricing rate
recommendation” means a rate set unilaterally by the administrative
contracting officer for use by the Government in negotiations or
other contract actions when forward pricing rate agreement negotiations
have not been completed or when the contractor will not agree to
a forward pricing rate agreement.</p>
               <p id="d75e1588" class="- topic/p ">“Freight”
means supplies, goods, and transportable property.</p>
               <p id="d75e1591" class="- topic/p ">“Full
and open competition,” when used with respect to a contract action,
means that all responsible sources are permitted to compete.</p>
               <p id="d75e1594" class="- topic/p ">“General and administrative (G&amp;A) expense”
means any management, financial, and other expense which is incurred
by or allocated to a business unit and which is for the general
management and administration of the business unit as a whole. G&amp;A
expense does not include those management expenses whose beneficial
or causal relationship to cost objectives can be more directly measured
by a base other than a cost input base representing the total activity
of a business unit during a cost accounting period.</p>
               <p id="d75e1597" class="- topic/p ">“Global warming potential” means how much a
given mass of a chemical contributes to global warming over a given
time period compared to the same mass of carbon dioxide. Carbon
dioxide’s global warming potential is defined as 1.0.</p>
               <p id="d75e1600" class="- topic/p ">“Governmentwide acquisition contract (GWAC)”
means a task-order or delivery-order contract for information technology
established by one agency for Governmentwide use that is operated-</p>
               <ol id="d73e1586" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1607" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         By
an executive agent designated by the Office of Management and Budget
pursuant to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 11302(e)</xref>;
or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1619" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Under a
delegation of procurement authority issued by the General Services
Administration (GSA) prior to August 7,1996, under authority granted
GSA by former section <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 759</xref>,
repealed by Pub. L. 104-106. The Economy Act does not apply to orders
under a Governmentwide acquisition contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1631" class="- topic/p ">“Governmentwide point of entry (GPE)” means
the single point where Government business opportunities greater
than $25,000, including synopses of proposed contract actions, solicitations,
and associated information, can be accessed electronically by the
public. The GPE is located at <xref href="https://www.fbo.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.fbo.gov</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e1637" class="- topic/p ">“Head of the agency” (see “agency head”).</p>
               <p id="d75e1640" class="- topic/p ">“Head of the contracting activity” means the
official who has overall responsibility for managing the contracting
activity.</p>
               <p id="d75e1643" class="- topic/p ">“High global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons”
means any hydrofluorocarbons in a particular end use for which EPA’s
Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) program has identified
other acceptable alternatives that have lower global warming potential.
The SNAP list of alternatives is found at 40 CFR part 82 subpart
G with supplemental tables of alternatives available at <xref href="http://www.epa.gov/snap/"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.epa.gov/snap/</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e1649" class="- topic/p ">“Historically black college or university” means
an institution determined by the Secretary of Education to meet
the requirements of 34 CFR 608.2.</p>
               <p id="d75e1652" class="- topic/p ">“HUBZone”
means a historically underutilized business zone that is an area
located within one or more qualified census tracts, qualified nonmetropolitan
counties, lands within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation,
qualified base closure areas, or redesignated areas, as defined
in 13 CFR 126.103.</p>
               <p id="d75e1656" class="- topic/p ">“HUBZone contract” means
a contract awarded to a Small Business Administration certified
“HUBZone small business concern” through any of the following procurement
methods:</p>
               <ol id="d73e1641" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1663" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         A sole source award to a HUBZone
small business concern.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1672" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Set-aside
awards based on competition restricted to HUBZone small business
concerns.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1681" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Awards
to HUBZone small business concerns through full and open competition
after a price evaluation preference in favor of HUBZone small business
concerns.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1689" class="- topic/p ">“HUBZone small business
concern” means a small business concern, certified by the Small
Business Administration (SBA), that appears on the List of Qualified
HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the SBA (13 CFR 126.103).</p>
               <p id="d75e1692" class="- topic/p ">“Humanitarian or peacekeeping operation” means
a military operation in support of the provision of humanitarian
or foreign disaster assistance or in support of a peacekeeping operation
under chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The
term does not include routine training, force rotation, or stationing
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C.2302(8)</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 153(2)</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e1701" class="- topic/p ">“Hydrofluorocarbons” means compounds that contain
only hydrogen, fluorine, and carbon.</p>
               <p id="d75e1704" class="- topic/p ">“In writing,”
“writing,” or “written” means any worded or numbered expression
that can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes
electronically transmitted and stored information.</p>
               <p id="d75e1708" class="- topic/p ">“Indirect
cost” means any cost not directly identified with a single final
cost objective, but identified with two or more final cost objectives
or with at least one intermediate cost objective.</p>
               <p id="d75e1711" class="- topic/p ">“Indirect
cost rate” means the percentage or dollar factor that expresses
the ratio of indirect expense incurred in a given period to direct
labor cost, manufacturing cost, or another appropriate base for
the same period (see also “final indirect cost rate”).</p>
               <p id="d75e1714" class="- topic/p ">“Ineligible” means excluded from Government
contracting (and subcontracting, if appropriate) pursuant to statutory,
Executive order, or regulatory authority other than this regulation
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">48 CFR chapter 1</xref>)
and its implementing and supplementing regulations; for example,
pursuant to–</p>
               <ol id="d73e1702" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1724" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. chapter
31</xref>, subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction),
and its related statutes and implementing regulations;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1736" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter
67</xref>, Service Contract Labor Standards;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1748" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The Equal
Employment Opportunity Acts and Executive orders;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1757" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter
65</xref>, Contracts for Material, Supplies, Articles, and Equipment
Exceeding $15,000;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1769" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter
83</xref>, Buy American; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1782" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         The Environmental
Protection Acts and Executive orders.</p>
                     <p id="d75e1788" class="- topic/p ">“Information
security” means protecting information and information systems from
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification,
or destruction in order to provide-</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <ol id="d73e1775" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1797" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Integrity,
which means guarding against improper information modification or
destruction, and includes ensuring information nonrepudiation and
authenticity;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1806" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Confidentiality,
which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure,
including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary
information; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1815" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Availability,
which means ensuring timely and reliable access to, and use of,
information.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1823" class="- topic/p ">“Information technology”
means any equipment, or interconnected system(s) or subsystem(s)
of equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage,
analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control,
display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data
or information by the agency.</p>
               <ol id="d73e1808" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1831" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         For purposes
of this definition, equipment is used by an agency if the equipment
is used by the agency directly or is used by a contractor under
a contract with the agency that requires-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e1818" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1841" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Its use; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1850" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               To a significant
extent, its use in the performance of a service or the furnishing
of a product.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1861" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The term
“information technology” includes computers, ancillary equipment
(including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices
necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed
to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software,
firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services),
and related resources.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1870" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The term
“information technology” does not include any equipment that-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e1857" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1880" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Is
acquired by a contractor incidental to a contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1889" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Contains
imbedded information technology that is used as an integral part
of the product, but the principal function of which is not the acquisition,
storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement,
control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception
of data or information. For example, HVAC (heating, ventilation,
and air conditioning) equipment, such as thermostats or temperature
control devices, and medical equipment where information technology
is integral to its operation, are not information technology.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1899" class="- topic/p ">“Inherently governmental function” means, as
a matter of policy, a function that is so intimately related to
the public interest as to mandate performance by Government employees.
This definition is a policy determination, not a legal determination.
An inherently governmental function includes activities that require
either the exercise of discretion in applying Government authority,
or the making of value judgments in making decisions for the Government.
Governmental functions normally fall into two categories: the act
of governing, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>the discretionary exercise of Government
authority, and monetary transactions and entitlements.</p>
               <ol id="d73e1886" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1909" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         An
inherently governmental function involves, among other things, the
interpretation and execution of the laws of the United States so
as to-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e1896" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1919" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Bind the United States to take
or not to take some action by contract, policy, regulation, authorization,
order, or otherwise;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1928" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Determine,
protect, and advance United States economic, political, territorial,
property, or other interests by military or diplomatic action, civil
or criminal judicial proceedings, contract management, or otherwise;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1937" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Significantly
affect the life, liberty, or property of private persons;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1946" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Commission,
appoint, direct, or control officers or employees of the United
States; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e1955" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                               Exert ultimate
control over the acquisition, use, or disposition of the property,
real or personal, tangible or intangible, of the United States,
including the collection, control, or disbursement of Federal funds.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1966" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Inherently
governmental functions do not normally include gathering information
for or providing advice, opinions, recommendations, or ideas to
Government officials. They also do not include functions that are
primarily ministerial and internal in nature, such as building security,
mail operations, operation of cafeterias, housekeeping, facilities operations
and maintenance, warehouse operations, motor vehicle fleet management
operations, or other routine electrical or mechanical services.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e1974" class="- topic/p ">“Inspection” means examining and testing supplies
or services (including, when appropriate, raw materials, components, and
intermediate assemblies) to determine whether they conform to contract
requirements.</p>
               <p id="d75e1977" class="- topic/p ">“Insurance” means a contract
that provides that for a stipulated consideration, one party undertakes
to indemnify another against loss, damage, or liability arising
from an unknown or contingent event.</p>
               <p id="d75e1980" class="- topic/p ">“Interagency
acquisition” means a procedure by which an agency needing supplies
or services (the requesting agency) obtains them from another agency
(the servicing agency), by an assisted acquisition or a direct acquisition.
The term includes—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e1988" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Acquisitions under the Economy
Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">31 U.S.C. 1535</xref>); and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2000" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Non-Economy
Act acquisitions completed under other statutory authorities, (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
General Services Administration Federal Supply Schedules in subpart
8.4 and Governmentwide acquisition contracts (GWACs)).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2011" class="- topic/p ">“Invoice” means a contractor’s bill or written
request for payment under the contract for supplies delivered or
services performed (see also “proper invoice”).</p>
               <p id="d75e2014" class="- topic/p ">“Irrevocable
letter of credit” means a written commitment by a federally insured
financial institution to pay all or part of a stated amount of money,
until the expiration date of the letter, upon the Government’s (the
beneficiary) presentation of a written demand for payment. Neither
the financial institution nor the offeror/contractor can revoke
or condition the letter of credit.</p>
               <p id="d75e2017" class="- topic/p ">“Labor
surplus area” means a geographical area identified by the Department
of Labor in accordance with 20 CFR part 654, subpart A, as an area
of concentrated unemployment or underemployment or an area of labor
surplus.</p>
               <p id="d75e2020" class="- topic/p ">“Labor surplus area concern” means
a concern that together with its first-tier subcontractors will
perform substantially in labor surplus areas. Performance is substantially
in labor surplus areas if the costs incurred under the contract
on account of manufacturing, production, or performance of appropriate
services in labor surplus areas exceed 50 percent of the contract
price.</p>
               <p id="d75e2023" class="- topic/p ">“Latent defect” means a defect that
exists at the time of acceptance but cannot be discovered by a reasonable
inspection.</p>
               <p id="d75e2027" class="- topic/p ">“Line item” means the basic structural
element in a procurement instrument that describes and organizes
the required product or service for pricing, delivery, inspection,
acceptance, invoicing, and payment. The use of the term “line item”
includes “subline item,” as applicable.</p>
               <p id="d75e2030" class="- topic/p ">“Line
item number” means either a numeric or alphanumeric format to identify
a line item.</p>
               <p id="d75e2033" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph ">“Major
disaster,” as used in <xref href="FAR-i1119977.dita#i1119977"
                           base="i1119977"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">6.208</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1111870.dita#i1111870"
                           base="i1111870"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">13.201</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1111260.dita#i1111260"
                           base="i1111260"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">13.500</xref>, <xref href="FAR-id1617MD0003V.dita#id1617MD0003V"
                           base="id1617MD0003V"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">18.001</xref>, <xref href="FAR-id1617MD0008D.dita#id1617MD0008D"
                           base="id1617MD0008D"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">18.202</xref>, <xref href="FAR-id1617MD000PB.dita#id1617MD000PB"
                           base="id1617MD000PB"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">18.203</xref>, and subpart <xref href="FAR-i1090563.dita#i1090563"
                           base="i1090563"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">26.2</xref>, means any natural
catastrophe (including any hurricane, tornado, storm, high water,
winddriven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption,
landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, or drought), or regardless of cause,
any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part of the United States,
which, in the determination of the President, causes damage of sufficient
severity and magnitude to warrant major disaster assistance under
the Stafford Act to supplement the efforts and available resources
of States, local governments, and disaster relief organizations
in alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5122&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>).</ph>
               </p>
               <p id="d75e2064" class="- topic/p ">“Major system” means that combination of elements
that will function together to produce the capabilities required
to fulfill a mission need. The elements may include hardware, equipment,
software, or any combination thereof, but exclude construction or
other improvements to real property. A system is a major system
if-</p>
               <ol id="d73e2000" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2071" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The Department of Defense is responsible
for the system and the total expenditures for research, development, test,
and evaluation for the system are estimated to be more than $185
million based on Fiscal Year 2014 constant dollars or the eventual
total expenditure for the acquisition exceeds $835 million based
on Fiscal Year 2014 constant dollars (or any update of these thresholds
based on a more recent fiscal year, as specified in the DoD Instruction
5000.02, “Operation of the Defense Acquisition System”);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2080" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A civilian
agency is responsible for the system and total expenditures for
the system are estimated to exceed $2 million or the dollar threshold
for a “major system” established by the agency pursuant to Office
of Management and Budget Circular A-109, entitled “Major System
Acquisitions,” whichever is greater; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2089" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The system
is designated a “major system” by the head of the agency responsible
for the system (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C.2302</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 109</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2103" class="- topic/p ">“Make-or-buy program” means that part of a contractor’s
written plan for a contract identifying those major items to be produced
or work efforts to be performed in the prime contractor’s facilities
and those to be subcontracted.</p>
               <p id="d75e2107" class="- topic/p ">“Manufactured
end product” means any end product in product and service codes
(PSC) 1000-9999, except-</p>
               <ol id="d73e2042" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2114" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         PSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic
Wood Materials;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2123" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Product
or service group (PSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2132" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         PSG 88,
Live Animals;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2141" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         PSG 89,
Subsistence;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2150" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         PSC 9410,
Crude Grades of Plant Materials;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2160" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         PSC 9430,
Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2169" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         PSC 9440,
Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2178" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                         PSC 9610,
Ores;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2187" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                         PSC 9620,
Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2196" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                         PSC 9630,
Additive Metal Materials.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2204" class="- topic/p ">“Market
research” means collecting and analyzing information about capabilities
within the market to satisfy agency needs.</p>
               <p id="d75e2207" class="- topic/p ">“Master
solicitation” means a document containing special clauses and provisions
that have been identified as essential for the acquisition of a
specific type of supply or service that is acquired repetitively.</p>
               <p id="d75e2210" class="- topic/p ">“May” denotes the permissive. However, the words
“no person may...” mean that no person is required, authorized,
or permitted to do the act described.</p>
               <p id="d75e2213" class="- topic/p ">“Micro-purchase”
means an acquisition of supplies or services using simplified acquisition
procedures, the aggregate amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase
threshold.</p>
               <p id="d75e2217" class="- topic/p ">“Micro-purchase threshold” means
$3,500, except it means-</p>
               <ol id="d73e2152" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2224" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         For acquisitions of construction
subject to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. chapter 31</xref>,
subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction), $2,000;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2236" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         For acquisitions
of services subject to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 67</xref>,
Service Contract Labor Standards, $2,500; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2248" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        <ph class="- topic/ph ">For acquisitions of supplies
or services that, as determined by the head of the agency, are to
be used to support a contingency operation; to facilitate defense
against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical or
radiological attack; to support a request from the Secretary of
State or the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance pursuant
to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2292&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">22 U.S.C. 2292</xref> et
seq.; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5122&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>), as
described in <xref href="FAR-i1111870.dita#i1111870"
                                 base="i1111870"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">13.201</xref>(g)(1), except for
construction subject to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. chapter 31</xref>,
subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1903</xref>)–</ph> 
                        
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2276" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               $20,000
in the case of any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase
to be made, inside the United States; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2285" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               $30,000
in the case of any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase
to be made, outside the United States.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2295" class="- topic/p ">“Minority Institution” means an institution
of higher education meeting the requirements of Section 365(3) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1067k&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">20 U.S.C. 1067k</xref>),
including a Hispanic-serving institution of higher education, as
defined in Section 502(a) of the Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1101a&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">20 U.S.C. 1101a</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e2304" class="- topic/p ">“Multi-agency contract (MAC)” means a task-order
or delivery-order contract established by one agency for use by
Government agencies to obtain supplies and services, consistent
with the Economy Act (see <xref href="FAR-i1102847.dita#i1102847"
                        base="i1102847"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">17.502-2</xref>).
Multi-agency contracts include contracts for information technology
established pursuant to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section11314&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 11314</xref>(a)(2).</p>
               <p id="d75e2313" class="- topic/p ">“Multiple-award contract” means a contract that
is—</p>
               <ol id="d73e2194" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2320" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         A Multiple Award Schedule contract
issued by GSA (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, GSA Schedule Contract) or agencies granted
Multiple Award Schedule contract authority by GSA (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>,
Department of Veterans Affairs) as described in FAR <xref href="FAR-i1077352.dita#i1077352"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  38</xref>;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2338" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A multiple-award
task-order or delivery-order contract issued in accordance with
FAR <xref href="FAR-i1103875.dita#i1103875"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  16.5</xref>,
including Governmentwide acquisition contracts; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2350" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Any other
indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract entered into with
two or more sources pursuant to the same solicitation.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2359" class="- topic/p ">“Must” (see “shall”).</p>
               <p id="d75e2362" class="- topic/p ">“National
defense” means any activity related to programs for military or
atomic energy production or construction, military assistance to
any foreign nation, stockpiling, or space, except that for use in <xref href="FAR-i1113975.dita#i1113975"
                        base="i1113975"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  11.6</xref>, see
the definition in <xref href="FAR-i1113979.dita#i1113979"
                        base="i1113979"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">11.601</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e2371" class="- topic/p ">“Neutral person” means an impartial third party,
who serves as a mediator, fact finder, or arbitrator, or otherwise
functions to assist the parties to resolve the issues in controversy.
A neutral person may be a permanent or temporary officer or employee
of the Federal Government or any other individual who is acceptable
to the parties. A neutral person must have no official, financial,
or personal conflict of interest with respect to the issues in controversy,
unless the interest is fully disclosed in writing to all parties
and all parties agree that the neutral person may serve (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5 U.S.C.583</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e2377" class="- topic/p ">“Nondevelopmental item” means—</p>
               <ol id="d73e2257" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2384" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Any
previously developed item of supply used exclusively for governmental
purposes by a Federal agency, a State or local government, or a
foreign government with which the United States has a mutual defense
cooperation agreement;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2393" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Any item
described in paragraph (1) of this definition that requires only
minor modification or modifications of a type customarily available
in the commercial marketplace in order to meet the requirements
of the procuring department or agency; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2402" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Any item
of supply being produced that does not meet the requirements of
paragraphs (1) or (2) solely because the item is not yet in use.</p>
                     <p id="d75e2408" class="- topic/p ">“Novation agreement” means a legal instrument-</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <ol id="d73e2290" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2417" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Executed
by the-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e2300" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2427" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Contractor (transferor);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2436" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Successor
in interest (transferee); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2445" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Government;
and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2456" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         By which,
among other things, the transferor guarantees performance of the
contract, the transferee assumes all obligations under the contract,
and the Government recognizes the transfer of the contract and related
assets.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2465" class="- topic/p ">“Offer” means a response
to a solicitation that, if accepted, would bind the offeror to perform
the resultant contract. Responses to invitations for bids (sealed
bidding) are offers called “bids” or “sealed bids”; responses to
requests for proposals (negotiation) are offers called “proposals”;
however, responses to requests for quotations (simplified acquisition)
are “quotations,” not offers. For unsolicited proposals, see <xref href="FAR-i1105439.dita#i1105439"
                        base="i1105439"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  15.6</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e2471" class="- topic/p ">“Offeror” means offeror or bidder.</p>
               <p id="d75e2474" class="- topic/p ">“Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business
Utilization” means the Office of Small Business Programs when referring to
the Department of Defense.</p>
               <p id="d75e2477" class="- topic/p ">“OMB Uniform Guidance
at 2 CFR part 200” is the abbreviated title for Uniform Administrative
Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal
Awards (2 CFR part 200), which supersedes OMB Circulars A-21, A-87,
A-89, A-102, A-110, A-122, and A-133, and the guidance in Circular
A-50 on Audit Followup.</p>
               <p id="d75e2480" class="- topic/p ">“Option” means a unilateral
right in a contract by which, for a specified time, the Government
may elect to purchase additional supplies or services called for
by the contract, or may elect to extend the term of the contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e2483" class="- topic/p ">“Organizational conflict of interest” means
that because of other activities or relationships with other persons,
a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance
or advice to the Government, or the person’s objectivity in performing
the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person
has an unfair competitive advantage.</p>
               <p id="d75e2487" class="- topic/p ">“Outlying
areas” means-</p>
               <ol id="d73e2367" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2494" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Commonwealths</p>
                     <ol id="d73e2377" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2504" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Puerto
Rico.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2513" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The Northern
Mariana Islands;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2524" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Territories</i>.</p>
                     <ol id="d73e2410" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2537" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               American
Samoa.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2546" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Guam.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2555" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               U.S.
Virgin Islands; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2566" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Minor
outlying islands</i>.</p>
                     <ol id="d73e2452" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2579" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Baker Island.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2588" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Howland
Island.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2597" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Jarvis
Island.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2606" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Johnston
Atoll.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2615" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                               Kingman
Reef.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2625" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>
                               Midway
Islands.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2634" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>
                               Navassa
Island.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2643" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>
                               Palmyra
Atoll.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2652" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph>
                               Wake Atoll.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2662" class="- topic/p ">“Overtime” means time worked by a contractor’s
employee in excess of the employee’s normal workweek.</p>
               <p id="d75e2665" class="- topic/p ">“Overtime premium” means the difference between
the contractor’s regular rate of pay to an employee for the shift
involved and the higher rate paid for overtime. It does not include
shift premium, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>the difference between the contractor's regular
rate of pay to an employee and the higher rate paid for extra-pay-shift
work.</p>
               <p id="d75e2671" class="- topic/p ">“Ozone-depleting substance” means any
substance the Environmental Protection Agency designates in 40 CFR
Part 82 as—</p>
               <ol id="d73e2551" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2678" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Class I, including, but not limited
to, chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl
chloroform; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2687" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Class II,
including, but not limited to, hydrochlorofluorocarbons.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2696" class="- topic/p ">“Partial termination” means the termination
of a part, but not all, of the work that has not been completed
and accepted under a contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e2699" class="- topic/p ">“Past performance”
means an offeror’s or contractor’s performance on active and physically
completed contracts (see <xref href="FAR-i1122482.dita#i1122482"
                        base="i1122482"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.804-4</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e2705" class="- topic/p ">“Performance-based acquisition (PBA)” means
an acquisition structured around the results to be achieved as opposed
to the manner by which the work is to be performed.</p>
               <p id="d75e2708" class="- topic/p ">“Performance Work Statement (PWS)” means a statement
of work for performance-based acquisitions that describes the required
results in clear, specific and objective terms with measurable outcomes.</p>
               <p id="d75e2711" class="- topic/p ">“Personal property” means property of any kind
or interest in it except real property, records of the Federal Government, and
naval vessels of the following categories:</p>
               <ol id="d73e2591" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2718" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Battleships;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2727" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Cruisers;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2736" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Aircraft
carriers;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2745" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Destroyers;
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2754" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         Submarines.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2763" class="- topic/p ">“Personal services contract” means a contract
that, by its express terms or as administered, makes the contractor
personnel appear to be, in effect, Government employees (see <xref href="FAR-i1077856.dita#i1077856"
                        base="i1077856"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">37.104</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e2769" class="- topic/p ">“Plant
clearance officer” means an authorized representative of the contracting
officer, appointed in accordance with agency procedures, responsible
for screening, redistributing, and disposing of contractor inventory
from a contractor’s plant or work site. The term “Contractor’s plant”
includes, but is not limited to, Government-owned contractor-operated
plants, Federal installations, and Federal and non-Federal industrial
operations, as may be required under the scope of the contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e2772" class="- topic/p ">“Pollution prevention” means any practice that-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2779" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d73e2659" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2789" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Reduces
the amount of any hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant
entering any waste stream or otherwise released into the environment
(including fugitive emissions) prior to recycling, treatment, or
disposal; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e2798" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Reduces
the hazards to public health and the environment associated with
the release of such substances, pollutants, and contaminants;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2809" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Reduces
or eliminates the creation of pollutants through increased efficiency
in the use of raw materials, energy, water, or other resources;
or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2818" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Protects
natural resources by conservation.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2826" class="- topic/p ">“Power
of attorney” means the authority given one person or corporation
to act for and obligate another, as specified in the instrument
creating the power; in corporate suretyship, an instrument under
seal that appoints an attorney-in-fact to act in behalf of a surety
company in signing bonds (see also “attorney-in-fact” at <xref href="FAR-i1088451.dita#i1088451"
                        base="i1088451"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">28.001</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e2832" class="- topic/p ">“Preaward
survey” means an evaluation of a prospective contractor’s capability
to perform a proposed contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e2836" class="- topic/p ">“Preponderance
of the evidence” means proof by information that, compared with
that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue
is more probably true than not.</p>
               <p id="d75e2839" class="- topic/p ">“Pricing”
means the process of establishing a reasonable amount or amounts
to be paid for supplies or services.</p>
               <p id="d75e2842" class="- topic/p ">“Principal”
means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary
management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity
(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, general manager; plant manager; head of a division
or business segment; and similar positions).</p>
               <p id="d75e2848" class="- topic/p ">“Procurement”
(see “acquisition”).</p>
               <p id="d75e2851" class="- topic/p ">“Procuring activity”
means a component of an executive agency having a significant acquisition
function and designated as such by the head of the agency. Unless
agency regulations specify otherwise, the term “procuring activity”
is synonymous with “contracting activity.”</p>
               <p id="d75e2854" class="- topic/p ">“Products”
has the same meaning as “supplies.”</p>
               <p id="d75e2858" class="- topic/p ">“Projected
average loss” means the estimated long-term average loss per period
for periods of comparable exposure to risk of loss.</p>
               <p id="d75e2861" class="- topic/p ">“Proper invoice” means an invoice that meets
the minimum standards specified in <xref href="FAR-i1081246.dita#i1081246"
                        base="i1081246"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.905</xref>(b).</p>
               <p id="d75e2867" class="- topic/p ">“Purchase order,” when issued by the Government,
means an offer by the Government to buy supplies or services, including
construction and research and development, upon specified terms
and conditions, using simplified acquisition procedures.</p>
               <p id="d75e2870" class="- topic/p ">“Qualification requirement” means a Government
requirement for testing or other quality assurance demonstration
that must be completed before award of a contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e2873" class="- topic/p ">“Qualified
products list (QPL)” means a list of products that have been examined,
tested, and have satisfied all applicable qualification requirements.</p>
               <p id="d75e2876" class="- topic/p ">“Receiving report” means written evidence that
indicates Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services
performed (see <xref href="FAR-i1072010.dita#i1072010"
                        base="i1072010"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  46.6</xref>).
Receiving reports must meet the requirements of <xref href="FAR-i1081246.dita#i1081246"
                        base="i1081246"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.905</xref>(c).</p>
               <p id="d75e2886" class="- topic/p ">“Recovered material” means waste materials and
by-products recovered or diverted from solid waste, but the term
does not include those materials and by-products generated from,
and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process. For
use in <xref href="FAR-i1114195.dita#i1114195"
                        base="i1114195"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  11.3</xref> for
paper and paper products, see the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1114197.dita#i1114197"
                        base="i1114197"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">11.301</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e2895" class="- topic/p ">“Registered
in the System for Award Management (SAM)” means that—</p>
               <ol id="d73e2771" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2902" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The
Contractor has entered all mandatory information, including the
unique entity identifier and the Electronic Funds Transfer indicator
(if applicable), the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code,
as well as data required by the Federal Funding Accountability and
Transparency Act of 2006 (see <xref href="FAR-i1121746.dita#i1121746"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  4.14</xref>), into
SAM;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2914" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The Contractor
has completed the Core, Assertions, Representations and Certifications,
and Points of Contact sections of the registration in SAM;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2923" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         The Government
has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of
the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS). The contractor will be required to provide consent
for TIN validation to the Government as a part of the SAM registration
process; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2932" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         The Government
has marked the record Active.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2940" class="- topic/p ">“Renewable
energy” means energy produced by solar, wind, geothermal, biomass,
landfill gas, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal),
municipal solid waste, or new hydroelectric generation capacity
achieved from increased efficiency or additions of new capacity
at an existing hydroelectric project (Energy Policy Act of 2005, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 15852</xref>).</p>
               <p id="d75e2946" class="- topic/p ">“Renewable energy technology” means—</p>
               <ol id="d73e2822" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2953" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Technologies
that use renewable energy to provide light, heat, cooling, or mechanical
or electrical energy for use in facilities or other activities;
or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2962" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The use
of integrated whole-building designs that rely upon renewable energy
resources, including passive solar design.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e2971" class="- topic/p ">“Requesting agency” means the agency that has
the requirement for an interagency acquisition.</p>
               <p id="d75e2974" class="- topic/p ">“Residual
value” means the proceeds, less removal and disposal costs, if any,
realized upon disposition of a tangible capital asset. It usually
is measured by the net proceeds from the sale or other disposition
of the asset, or its fair value if the asset is traded in on another
asset. The estimated residual value is a current forecast of the
residual value.</p>
               <p id="d75e2977" class="- topic/p ">“Responsible audit agency”
means the agency that is responsible for performing all required
contract audit services at a business unit.</p>
               <p id="d75e2980" class="- topic/p ">“Responsible
prospective contractor” means a contractor that meets the standards
in <xref href="FAR-i1116079.dita#i1116079"
                        base="i1116079"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.104</xref>.</p>
               <p id="d75e2986" class="- topic/p ">“Scrap”
means personal property that has no value except its basic metallic,
mineral, or organic content.</p>
               <p id="d75e2989" class="- topic/p ">“Segment” means
one of two or more divisions, product departments, plants, or other
subdivisions of an organization reporting directly to a home office,
usually identified with responsibility for profit and/or producing
a product or service. The term includes-</p>
               <ol id="d73e2865" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e2997" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Government-owned
contractor-operated (GOCO) facilities; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3006" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Joint ventures
and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the organization
has-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e2884" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3016" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               A majority ownership; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3025" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Less than
a majority ownership, but over which it exercises control.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3035" class="- topic/p ">“Self-insurance” means the assumption or retention
of the risk of loss by the contractor, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
Self-insurance includes the deductible portion of purchased insurance.</p>
               <p id="d75e3038" class="- topic/p ">“Senior procurement executive” means the individual
appointed pursuant to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1702(c)</xref> who
is responsible for management direction of the acquisition system
of the executive agency, including implementation of the unique
acquisition policies, regulations, and standards of the executive
agency.</p>
               <p id="d75e3044" class="- topic/p ">“Service-disabled veteran-owned small
business concern”—</p>
               <ol id="d73e2920" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3051" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means a small business concern–</p>
                     <ol id="d73e2930" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3061" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Not
less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled
veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less
than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled
veterans; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3070" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The management
and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or
more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled
veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent
caregiver of such veteran.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3081" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Service-disabled
veteran means a veteran, as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">38 U.S.C.101(2)</xref>, with
a disability that is service-connected, as defined in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">38 U.S.C.101(16)</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3095" class="- topic/p ">“Servicing agency” means the agency that will
conduct an assisted acquisition on behalf of the requesting agency.</p>
               <p id="d75e3099" class="- topic/p ">“Shall” denotes the imperative.</p>
               <p id="d75e3102" class="- topic/p ">“Shipment” means freight transported or to be
transported.</p>
               <p id="d75e3105" class="- topic/p ">“Shop drawings” means drawings
submitted by the construction contractor or a subcontractor at any
tier or required under a construction contract, showing in detail
either or both of the following:</p>
               <ol id="d73e2980" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3112" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         The proposed
fabrication and assembly of structural elements.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3121" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The installation
(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>form, fit, and attachment details) of materials or
equipment.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3132" class="- topic/p ">“Should” means an expected
course of action or policy that is to be followed unless inappropriate
for a particular circumstance.</p>
               <p id="d75e3135" class="- topic/p ">“Signature”
or “signed” means the discrete, verifiable symbol of an individual that,
when affixed to a writing with the knowledge and consent of the
individual, indicates a present intention to authenticate the writing.
This includes electronic symbols.</p>
               <p id="d75e3139" class="- topic/p ">“Simplified
acquisition procedures” means the methods prescribed in <xref href="FAR-i1112458.dita#i1112458"
                        base="i1112458"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  13</xref> for making
purchases of supplies or services.</p>
               <p id="d75e3145" class="- topic/p ">“Simplified
acquisition threshold” means $150,000, except for—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3152" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        <ph class="- topic/ph ">Acquisitions of supplies or
services that, as determined by the head of the agency, are to be
used to support a contingency operation; to facilitate defense against
or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack;
to support a request from the Secretary of State or the Administrator
of the United States Agency for International Development to facilitate
provision of international disaster assistance pursuant to <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2292&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">22 U.S.C. 2292</xref> et
seq.; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5122&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">42 U.S.C. 5122</xref>), (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1903&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1903</xref>),
the term means–</ph> 
                        
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3174" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               $750,000 for any contract to be
awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, inside the United
States; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3183" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               $1.5 million
for any contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be
made, outside the United States; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3194" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Acquisitions
of supplies or services that, as determined by the head of the agency,
are to be used to support a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2302&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 2302</xref>),
the term means $300,000 for any contract to be awarded and performed,
or purchase to be made, outside the United States.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3205" class="- topic/p ">“Single, Governmentwide point of entry,” means
the one point of entry to be designated by the Administrator of
OFPP that will allow the private sector to electronically access
procurement opportunities Governmentwide.</p>
               <p id="d75e3208" class="- topic/p ">“Small
business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that
is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified
as a small business under the criteria and size standards in 13
CFR part 121 (see <xref href="FAR-i1101844.dita#i1101844"
                        base="i1101844"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.102</xref>).
Such a concern is “not dominant in its field of operation” when it
does not exercise a controlling or major influence on a national
basis in a kind of business activity in which a number of business
concerns are primarily engaged. In determining whether dominance
exists, consideration must be given to all appropriate factors,
including volume of business, number of employees, financial resources,
competitive status or position, ownership or control of materials,
processes, patents, license agreements, facilities, sales territory,
and nature of business activity. (See <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section632&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 632</xref>.)</p>
               <p id="d75e3217" class="- topic/p ">“Small business subcontractor” means a concern
that does not exceed the size standard for the North American Industry Classification
Systems code that the prime contractor determines best describes
the product or service being acquired by the subcontract.</p>
               <p id="d75e3221" class="- topic/p ">“Small Business Teaming Arrangement”—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3228" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means an arrangement
where–</p>
                     <ol id="d73e3023" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3238" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Two or more small business concerns
have formed a joint venture; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3247" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               A small
business offeror agrees with one or more other small business concerns
to have them act as its subcontractors under a specified Government
contract. A Small Business Teaming Arrangement between the offeror and
its small business subcontractor(s) exists through a written agreement
between the parties that–</p>
                           <ol id="d73e3042" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d75e3257" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                     Is specifically referred to as
a “Small Business Teaming Arrangement”; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d75e3266" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                     Sets forth
the different responsibilities, roles, and percentages (or other
allocations) of work as it relates to the acquisition;</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3279" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d73e3072" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3289" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               For
civilian agencies, may include two business concerns in a mentor-protégé
relationship when both the mentor and the protégé are small or the
protégé is small and the concerns have received an exception to
affiliation pursuant to 13 CFR 121.103(h)(3)(ii) or (iii).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3298" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               For DoD,
may include two business concerns in a mentor-protégé relationship
in the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protégé Program (see section
831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public
Law 101-510; <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">10 U.S.C. 2302 note</xref>))
when both the mentor and the protégé are small. There is no exception to
joint venture size affiliation for offers received from teaming
arrangements under the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protégé
Program; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3312" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         See 13
CFR 121.103(b)(9) regarding the exception to affiliation for offers
received from Small Business Teaming Arrangements in the case of
a solicitation of offers for a bundled contract with a reserve.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3320" class="- topic/p ">“Small disadvantaged business concern” consistent
with 13 CFR 124.1002, means a small business concern under the size standard
applicable to the acquisition, that:</p>
               <ol id="d73e3112" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3327" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Is at least
51 percent unconditionally and directly owned (as defined at 13
CFR 124.105) by—</p>
                     <ol id="d73e3122" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3337" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               One or more socially disadvantaged
(as defined at 13 CFR 124.103) and economically disadvantaged (as
defined at 13 CFR 124.104) individuals who are citizens of the United
States; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3346" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Each individual
claiming economic disadvantage has a net worth not exceeding $750,000
after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at
13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3357" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The management
and daily business operations of which are controlled (as defined
at 13 CFR 124.106) by individuals who meet the criteria in paragraphs
(1)(i) and (ii) of this definition.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3365" class="- topic/p ">“Sole
source acquisition” means a contract for the purchase of supplies
or services that is entered into or proposed to be entered into
by an agency after soliciting and negotiating with only one source.</p>
               <p id="d75e3368" class="- topic/p ">“Solicitation” means any request to submit offers
or quotations to the Government. Solicitations under sealed bid
procedures are called “invitations for bids.” Solicitations under
negotiated procedures are called “requests for proposals.” Solicitations
under simplified acquisition procedures may require submission of
either a quotation or an offer.</p>
               <p id="d75e3372" class="- topic/p ">“Solicitation
provision or provision” means a term or condition used only in solicitations
and applying only before contract award.</p>
               <p id="d75e3375" class="- topic/p ">“Source
selection information” means any of the following information that
is prepared for use by an agency for the purpose of evaluating a
bid or proposal to enter into an agency procurement contract, if
that information has not been previously made available to the public
or disclosed publicly:</p>
               <ol id="d73e3166" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3382" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Bid prices submitted in response
to an agency invitation for bids, or lists of those bid prices before
bid opening.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3391" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Proposed
costs or prices submitted in response to an agency solicitation,
or lists of those proposed costs or prices.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3400" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Source
selection plans.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3409" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Technical
evaluation plans.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3418" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         Technical
evaluations of proposals.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3428" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         Cost or
price evaluations of proposals.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3437" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         Competitive
range determinations that identify proposals that have a reasonable
chance of being selected for award of a contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3446" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                         Rankings
of bids, proposals, or competitors.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3455" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                         Reports
and evaluations of source selection panels, boards, or advisory
councils.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3464" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                         Other
information marked as “Source Selection Information-See FAR <xref href="#i1125359"
                              base="i1125359"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1124683.dita#i1124683"
                              base="i1124683"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">3.104</xref>” based on a case-by-case
determination by the head of the agency or the contracting officer,
that its disclosure would jeopardize the integrity or successful
completion of the Federal agency procurement to which the information
relates.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3478" class="- topic/p ">“Special competency” means
a special or unique capability, including qualitative aspects, developed
incidental to the primary functions of the Federally Funded Research
and Development Centers to meet some special need.</p>
               <p id="d75e3481" class="- topic/p ">“Special
test equipment” means either single or multipurpose integrated test
units engineered, designed, fabricated, or modified to accomplish
special purpose testing in performing a contract. It consists of
items or assemblies of equipment including foundations and similar
improvements necessary for installing special test equipment, and
standard or general purpose items or components that are interconnected
and interdependent so as to become a new functional entity for special
testing purposes. Special test equipment does not include material,
special tooling, real property, and equipment items used for general
testing purposes or property that with relatively minor expense
can be made suitable for general purpose use.</p>
               <p id="d75e3484" class="- topic/p ">“Special
tooling” means jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns, taps, gauges,
and all components of these items including foundations and similar
improvements necessary for installing special tooling, and which
are of such a specialized nature that without substantial modification
or alteration their use is limited to the development or production
of particular supplies or parts thereof or to the performance of
particular services. Special tooling does not include material,
special test equipment, real property, equipment, machine tools,
or similar capital items.</p>
               <p id="d75e3488" class="- topic/p ">“State and local
taxes” means taxes levied by the States, the District of Columbia,
outlying areas of the United States, or their political subdivisions.</p>
               <p id="d75e3491" class="- topic/p ">“Statement of Objectives (SOO)” means a Government-prepared
document incorporated into the solicitation that states the overall
performance objectives. It is used in solicitations when the Government
intends to provide the maximum flexibility to each offeror to propose
an innovative approach.</p>
               <p id="d75e3494" class="- topic/p ">“Subline item” means
a subset of a line item.</p>
               <p id="d75e3497" class="- topic/p ">“Substantial evidence”
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that
a particular act or omission has occurred.</p>
               <p id="d75e3500" class="- topic/p ">“Substantially
as follows” or “substantially the same as,” when used in the prescription
and introductory text of a provision or clause, means that authorization
is granted to prepare and utilize a variation of that provision
or clause to accommodate requirements that are peculiar to an individual
acquisition; provided that the variation includes the salient features
of the FAR provision or clause, and is not inconsistent with the
intent, principle, and substance of the FAR provision or clause or
related coverage of the subject matter.</p>
               <p id="d75e3503" class="- topic/p ">“Supplemental
agreement” means a contract modification that is accomplished by
the mutual action of the parties.</p>
               <p id="d75e3507" class="- topic/p ">“Supplies”
means all property except land or interest in land. It includes
(but is not limited to) public works, buildings, and facilities;
ships, floating equipment, and vessels of every character, type,
and description, together with parts and accessories; aircraft and
aircraft parts, accessories, and equipment; machine tools; and the
alteration or installation of any of the foregoing.</p>
               <p id="d75e3510" class="- topic/p ">“Supporting a diplomatic or consular mission”
means performing outside the United States under a contract administered by
Federal agency personnel who are subject to the direction of a Chief
of Mission.</p>
               <p id="d75e3513" class="- topic/p ">“Surety” means an individual or
corporation legally liable for the debt, default, or failure of
a principal to satisfy a contractual obligation. The types of sureties
referred to are as follows:</p>
               <ol id="d73e3304" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3520" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         An individual
surety is one person, as distinguished from a business entity, who
is liable for the entire penal amount of the bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3529" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A corporate
surety is licensed under various insurance laws and, under its charter,
has legal power to act as surety for others.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3538" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         A cosurety
is one of two or more sureties that are jointly liable for the penal
sum of the bond. A limit of liability for each surety may be stated.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3546" class="- topic/p ">“Surplus property” means excess personal property
not required by any Federal agency as determined by the Administrator
of the General Services Administration (GSA). (See 41 CFR 102-36.40).</p>
               <p id="d75e3549" class="- topic/p ">“Suspension” means action taken by a suspending
official under <xref href="FAR-i1115455.dita#i1115455"
                        base="i1115455"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.407</xref> to
disqualify a contractor temporarily from Government contracting
and Government-approved subcontracting; a contractor that is disqualified
is “suspended.”</p>
               <p id="d75e3556" class="- topic/p ">“Sustainable acquisition”
means acquiring goods and services in order to create and maintain
conditions-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3563" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Under
which humans and nature can exist in productive harmony; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3572" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         That permit
fulfilling the social, economic, and other requirements of present
and future generations.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3580" class="- topic/p ">“System
for Award Management (SAM)” means the primary Government repository
for prospective Federal awardee and Federal awardee information
and the centralized Government system for certain contracting, grants,
and other assistance-related processes. It includes—</p>
               <ol id="d73e3356" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3587" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Data
collected from prospective Federal awardees required for the conduct
of business with the Government;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3596" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Prospective
contractor-submitted annual representations and certifications in
accordance with FAR subpart <xref href="FAR-i1121869.dita#i1121869"
                              base="i1121869"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">4.12</xref>; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3608" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Identification
of those parties excluded from receiving Federal contracts, certain
subcontracts, and certain types of Federal financial and non-financial
assistance and benefits.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3616" class="- topic/p ">“Task order”
means an order for services placed against an established contract
or with Government sources.</p>
               <p id="d75e3619" class="- topic/p ">“Taxpayer Identification
Number (TIN)” means the number required by the IRS to be used by
the offeror in reporting income tax and other returns. The TIN may
be either a Social Security Number or an Employer Identification
Number.</p>
               <p id="d75e3623" class="- topic/p ">“Technical data” means recorded information
(regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific
or technical nature (including computer databases and computer software
documentation). This term does not include computer software or
financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or
other information incidental to contract administration. The term
includes recorded information of a scientific or technical nature
that is included in computer databases <ph class="- topic/ph ">(see <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 116</xref>
                  </ph>).</p>
               <p id="d75e3632" class="- topic/p ">“Terminated portion of the contract” means the
portion of a contract that the contractor is not to perform following
a partial termination. For construction contracts that have been
completely terminated for convenience, it means the entire contract, notwithstanding
the completion of, and payment for, individual items of work before
termination.</p>
               <p id="d75e3635" class="- topic/p ">“Termination for convenience”
means the exercise of the Government’s right to completely or partially
terminate performance of work under a contract when it is in the
Government’s interest.</p>
               <p id="d75e3638" class="- topic/p ">“Termination for default”
means the exercise of the Government’s right to completely or partially
terminate a contract because of the contractor’s actual or anticipated
failure to perform its contractual obligations.</p>
               <p id="d75e3641" class="- topic/p ">“Termination
inventory” means any property purchased, supplied, manufactured,
furnished, or otherwise acquired for the performance of a contract
subsequently terminated and properly allocable to the terminated
portion of the contract. It includes Government-furnished property.
It does not include any facilities, material, special test equipment,
or special tooling that are subject to a separate contract or to
a special contract requirement governing their use or disposition.</p>
               <p id="d75e3644" class="- topic/p ">“Unallowable cost” means any cost that, under
the provisions of any pertinent law, regulation, or contract, cannot
be included in prices, cost-reimbursements, or settlements under
a Government contract to which it is allocable.</p>
               <p id="d75e3648" class="- topic/p ">“Unique
and innovative concept,” when used relative to an unsolicited research
proposal, means that-</p>
               <ol id="d73e3424" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3655" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         In the opinion and to the knowledge
of the Government evaluator, the meritorious proposal-</p>
                     <ol id="d73e3434" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3665" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Is
the product of original thinking submitted confidentially by one
source;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3674" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Contains
new, novel, or changed concepts, approaches, or methods;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3683" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Was not
submitted previously by another; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3692" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Is not
otherwise available within the Federal Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3703" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         In this
context, the term does not mean that the source has the sole capability
of performing the research.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3711" class="- topic/p ">“Unique
entity identifier” means a number or other identifier used to identify
a specific commercial, nonprofit, or Government entity. See <xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.sam.gov</xref> for
the designated entity for establishing unique entity identifiers.</p>
               <p id="d75e3717" class="- topic/p ">“United States,” when used in a geographic sense,
means the 50 States and the District of Columbia, except as follows:</p>
               <ol id="d73e3487" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3724" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         For use in <xref href="FAR-i1123667.dita#i1123667"
                              base="i1123667"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  3.10</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1123674.dita#i1123674"
                              base="i1123674"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">3.1001</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3739" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1097211.dita#i1097211"
                              base="i1097211"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.8</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1097215.dita#i1097215"
                              base="i1097215"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.801</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3754" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1096345.dita#i1096345"
                              base="i1096345"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.10</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1096351.dita#i1096351"
                              base="i1096351"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1001</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3769" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1096178.dita#i1096178"
                              base="i1096178"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.12</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1096182.dita#i1096182"
                              base="i1096182"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1201</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3784" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1096024.dita#i1096024"
                              base="i1096024"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.13</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1096035.dita#i1096035"
                              base="i1096035"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1301</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3800" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1095728.dita#i1095728"
                              base="i1095728"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.16</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1095732.dita#i1095732"
                              base="i1095732"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1601</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3815" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1095525.dita#i1095525"
                              base="i1095525"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.17</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1095538.dita#i1095538"
                              base="i1095538"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1702</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3830" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1095422.dita#i1095422"
                              base="i1095422"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  22.18</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-id1617MD050J7.dita#id1617MD050J7"
                              base="id1617MD050J7"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1801</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3845" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1095068.dita#i1095068"
                              base="i1095068"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  23</xref>, see definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1094968.dita#i1094968"
                              base="i1094968"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">23.001</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3860" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1093771.dita#i1093771"
                              base="i1093771"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  25</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1093413.dita#i1093413"
                              base="i1093413"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3875" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(11)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1090283.dita#i1090283"
                              base="i1090283"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  27</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1090247.dita#i1090247"
                              base="i1090247"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">27.001</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3891" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(12)</ph>
                         For use
in <xref href="FAR-i1069958.dita#i1069958"
                              base="i1069958"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  47.4</xref>, see
the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1069960.dita#i1069960"
                              base="i1069960"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">47.401</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e3905" class="- topic/p ">“Unsolicited proposal” means a written proposal
for a new or innovative idea that is submitted to an agency on the
initiative of the offeror for the purpose of obtaining a contract
with the Government, and that is not in response to a request for proposals,
Broad Agency Announcement, Small Business Innovation Research topic,
Small Business Technology Transfer Research topic, Program Research
and Development Announcement, or any other Government-initiated
solicitation or program.</p>
               <p id="d75e3909" class="- topic/p ">“Value engineering”
means an analysis of the functions of a program, project, system,
product, item of equipment, building, facility, service, or supply
of an executive agency, performed by qualified agency or contractor
personnel, directed at improving performance, reliability, quality,
safety, and life-cycle costs (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 1711</xref>).
For use in the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1044529.dita#i1044529"
                        base="i1044529"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>,
see the definition at <xref href="FAR-i1044529.dita#i1044529"
                        base="i1044529"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>(b).</p>
               <p id="d75e3921" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph ">“Value engineering change
proposal (VECP)”-</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d73e3690" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3931" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Means a proposal that–</p>
                     <ol id="d73e3700" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3941" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Requires a
change to the instant contract to implement; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e3950" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Results in reducing the overall
projected cost to the agency without impairing essential functions
or characteristics, provided, that it does not involve a change–</p>
                           <ol id="d73e3719" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d75e3960" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                     In deliverable
end item quantities only;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d75e3969" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                     In research and development (R&amp;D)
items or R&amp;D test quantities that are due solely to results
of previous testing under the instant contract; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d75e3978" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>
                                     To the contract type only.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e3991" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         For use
in the clauses at-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e4001" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              <xref href="FAR-i1044529.dita#i1044529"
                                    base="i1044529"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1044529.dita#i1044529"
                                    base="i1044529"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.248-2</xref>(b); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e4016" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              <xref href="FAR-i1044553.dita#i1044553"
                                    base="i1044553"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.248-3</xref>, see the definition
at <xref href="FAR-i1044553.dita#i1044553"
                                    base="i1044553"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.248-3</xref>(b).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e4032" class="- topic/p ">“Veteran-owned small business concern” means
a small business concern-</p>
               <ol id="d73e3762" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4039" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Not less than 51 percent of which
is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">38 U.S.C.101(2)</xref>)
or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51
percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans;
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4051" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The management
and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or
more veterans.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e4059" class="- topic/p ">“Virgin material”
means—</p>
               <ol id="d73e3789" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4067" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Previously unused raw material,
including previously unused copper, aluminum, lead, zinc, iron,
other metal or metal ore; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4076" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Any undeveloped
resource that is, or with new technology will become, a source of
raw materials.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e4084" class="- topic/p ">“Voluntary consensus
standards” means common and repeated use of rules, conditions, guidelines
or characteristics for products, or related processes and production
methods and related management systems. Voluntary Consensus Standards are
developed or adopted by domestic and international voluntary consensus
standard making bodies (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, International Organization
for Standardization (ISO) and ASTM-International). See OMB Circular
A-119.</p>
               <p id="d75e4090" class="- topic/p ">“Warranty” means a promise or affirmation
given by a contractor to the Government regarding the nature, usefulness,
or condition of the supplies or performance of services furnished
under the contract.</p>
               <p id="d75e4093" class="- topic/p ">“Waste reduction” means
preventing or decreasing the amount of waste being generated through
waste prevention, recycling, or purchasing recycled and environmentally
preferable products.</p>
               <p id="d75e4096" class="- topic/p ">“Water consumption intensity”
means water consumption per square foot of building space.</p>
               <p id="d75e4099" class="- topic/p ">“Women-owned small business concern” means—</p>
               <ol id="d73e3829" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4107" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         A
small business concern–</p>
                     <ol id="d73e3839" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e4117" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               That is at least 51 percent owned
by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business,
at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more
women; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e4126" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Whose
management and daily business operations are controlled by one or
more women; or</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4137" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A small
business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program
in accordance with 13 CFR part 127 (see <xref href="FAR-i1099174.dita#i1099174"
                              base="i1099174"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.15</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e4148" class="- topic/p ">“Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program.”</p>
               <ol id="d73e382945" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4155" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         “Women-Owned
Small Business (WOSB) Program” means a program that authorizes contracting
officers to limit competition, including award on a sole source
basis, to—</p>
                     <ol id="d73e3839323" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e4165" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Economically disadvantaged women-owned
small business (EDWOSB) concerns eligible under the WOSB Program
for Federal contracts assigned a North American Industry Classification
Systems (NAICS) code in an industry in which the Small Business
Administration (SBA) has determined that WOSB concerns are underrepresented in
Federal procurement; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d75e4174" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               WOSB concerns
eligible under the WOSB Program for Federal contracts assigned a
NAICS code in an industry in which SBA has determined that WOSB
concerns are substantially underrepresented in Federal procurement.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4185" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         “Economically
disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means
a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and
unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business
operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are
citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged
in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as
a women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB
Program.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d75e4194" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         “Women-owned
small business (WOSB)” concern eligible under the WOSB Program means
a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and
unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business
operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are
citizens of the United States (13 CFR part 127).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d75e4202" class="- topic/p ">“Writing or written” (see “in writing”).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
