<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1106384"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">15.406-2</ph> Certificate of Current
Cost or Pricing Data.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d917e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d931e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   When certified cost or pricing
data are required, the contracting officer shall require the contractor
to execute a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, using
the format in this paragraph, and must include the executed certificate
in the contract file.</p>
               <p id="d931e23" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Certificate
of Current Cost or Pricing Data</p>
               <p id="d931e26" class="- topic/p ">This is to
certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the cost or
pricing data (as defined in section <xref href="FAR-i1125359.dita#i1125359"
                        base="i1125359"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) and required under FAR subsection <xref href="FAR-i1106066.dita#i1106066"
                        base="i1106066"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.403-4</xref>) submitted, either
actually or by specific identification in writing, to the Contracting
Officer or to the Contracting Officer's representative in support
of ________* are accurate, complete, and current as of ________**.
This certification includes the cost or pricing data supporting
any advance agreements and forward pricing rate agreements between
the offeror and the Government that are part of the proposal.</p>
               <p id="d931e35" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Firm _____________________________________________</p>
               <p id="d931e38" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Signature _________________________________________</p>
               <p id="d931e42" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Name ____________________________________________</p>
               <p id="d931e45" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Title _____________________________________________</p>
               <p id="d931e48" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Date of execution***________________________________</p>
               <p id="d931e51" class="- topic/p ">* Identify the proposal, request for price adjustment,
or other submission involved, giving the appropriate identifying
number (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>RFP No.).</p>
               <p id="d931e57" class="- topic/p ">** Insert the
day, month, and year when price negotiations were concluded and
price agreement was reached or, if applicable, an earlier date agreed
upon between the parties that is as close as practicable to the
date of agreement on price.</p>
               <p id="d931e60" class="- topic/p ">***Insert
the day, month, and year of signing, which should be as close as
practicable to the date when the price negotiations were concluded
and the contract price was agreed to.</p>
               <p id="d931e64" outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">(End of certificate)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d931e70" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The certificate
does not constitute a representation as to the accuracy of the contractor’s
judgment on the estimate of future costs or projections. It applies
to the data upon which the judgment or estimate was based. This
distinction between fact and judgment should be clearly understood.
If the contractor had information reasonably available at the time
of agreement showing that the negotiated price was not based on
accurate, complete, and current data, the contractor’s responsibility
is not limited by any lack of personal knowledge of the information
on the part of its negotiators.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d931e79" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The contracting
officer and contractor are encouraged to reach a prior agreement
on criteria for establishing closing or cutoff dates when appropriate
in order to minimize delays associated with proposal updates. Closing
or cutoff dates should be included as part of the data submitted
with the proposal and, before agreement on price, data should be
updated by the contractor to the latest closing or cutoff dates
for which the data are available. Use of cutoff dates coinciding
with reports is acceptable, as certain data may not be reasonably
available before normal periodic closing dates (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>actual
indirect costs). Data within the contractor’s or a subcontractor’s
organization on matters significant to contractor management and
to the Government will be treated as reasonably available. What
is significant depends upon the circumstances of each acquisition.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d931e91" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Possession
of a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data is not a substitute
for examining and analyzing the contractor’s proposal.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d931e100" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   If certified
cost or pricing data are requested by the Government and submitted
by an offeror, but an exception is later found to apply, the data
shall not be considered certified cost or pricing data and shall
not be certified in accordance with this subsection.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
