<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1115457"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.407-1</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d592e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d606e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   The suspending official may, in
the public interest, suspend a contractor for any of the causes
in <xref href="FAR-i1115483.dita#i1115483"
                        base="i1115483"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.407-2</xref>, using the procedures
in <xref href="FAR-i1115521.dita#i1115521"
                        base="i1115521"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.407-3</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d606e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d592e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d606e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Suspension
is a serious action to be imposed on the basis of adequate evidence,
pending the completion of investigation or legal proceedings, when
it has been determined that immediate action is necessary to protect
the Government’s interest. In assessing the adequacy of the evidence,
agencies should consider how much information is available, how credible
it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations
are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as
a result. This assessment should include an examination of basic
documents such as contracts, inspection reports, and correspondence.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d606e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        <ph class="- topic/ph ">The</ph> existence of a cause
for suspension does not necessarily require that the contractor
be suspended. The suspending official should consider the seriousness
of the contractor’s acts or omissions and may, but is not required
to, consider remedial measures or mitigating factors, such as those
set forth in <xref href="FAR-i1115302.dita#i1115302"
                              base="i1115302"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">9.406-1</xref>(a). A contractor
has the burden of promptly presenting to the suspending official
evidence of remedial measures or mitigating factors when it has
reason to know that a cause for suspension exists. The existence
or nonexistence of any remedial measures or mitigating factors is
not necessarily determinative of a contractor’s present responsibility.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d606e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   Suspension constitutes suspension
of all divisions or other organizational elements of the contractor,
unless the suspension decision is limited by its terms to specific
divisions, organizational elements, or commodities. The suspending
official may extend the suspension decision to include any affiliates
of the contractor if they are-</p>
               <ol id="d592e71" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d606e78" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Specifically named; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d606e87" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Given written notice of the suspension
and an opportunity to respond (see <xref href="FAR-i1115521.dita#i1115521"
                              base="i1115521"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">9.407-3</xref>(c)).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d606e101" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   A contractor’s
suspension shall be effective throughout the executive branch of
the Government, unless the agency head or a designee (except see <xref href="FAR-i1094606.dita#i1094606"
                        base="i1094606"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">23.506</xref>(e)) states in writing
the compelling reasons justifying continued business dealings between
that agency and the contractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d606e113" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d592e116" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d606e123" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         When
the suspending official has authority to suspend contractors from
both acquisition contracts pursuant to this regulation and contracts
for the purchase of Federal personal property pursuant to FPMR 101-45.6,
that official shall consider simultaneously suspending the contractor
from the award of acquisition contracts and from the purchase of Federal
personal property.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d606e132" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         When suspending
a contractor from the award of acquisition contracts and from the
purchase of Federal personal property, the suspension notice shall
so indicate and the appropriate FAR and FPMR citations shall be
included.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
