<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD0N0RE"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">47.001</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this part-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Bill of lading” means a transportation document, used as a receipt of goods, as documentary evidence of title, for clearing customs, and generally used as a contract of carriage.</p>
			      <ol id="d2712e19" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d2712e23" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2726e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                “Commercial bill of lading (CBL)”, unlike the Government bill of lading, is not an accountable transportation document.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2726e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                “Government bill of lading (GBL)” is an accountable transportation document, authorized and prepared by a Government official.</p>
							              <p id="d2726e42" class="- topic/p ">“Carrier” or “commercial carrier” means a common carrier or a contract carrier.</p>
							              <p id="d2726e45" class="- topic/p ">“Common carrier” means a person holding itself out to the general public to provide transportation for compensation.</p>
							              <p id="d2726e48" class="- topic/p ">“Contract carrier” means a person providing transportation for compensation under continuing agreements with one person or a limited number of persons.</p>
							              <p id="d2726e51" class="- topic/p ">“Government rate tender” under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">49 U.S.C. 10721</xref> and 13712 means an offer by a common carrier to the United States at a rate below the regulated rate offered to the general public.</p>
							              <p id="d2726e58" class="- topic/p ">“Household goods” in accordance with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">49 U.S.C. 13102</xref> means personal effects and property used or to be used in a dwelling, when a part of the equipment or supply of such dwelling, and similar property if the transportation of such effects or property is arranged and paid for by-</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
					          <ol id="d2712e66" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2726e70" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The householder, except such term does not include property moving from a factory or store, other than property that the householder has purchased with the intent to use in his or her dwelling and is transported at the request of, and the transportation charges are paid to the carrier by, the householder; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2726e79" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Another party.</p>
							              <p id="d2726e85" class="- topic/p ">“Noncontiguous domestic trade” means transportation (except with regard to bulk cargo, forest products, recycled metal scrap, waste paper, and paper waste) subject to regulation by the Surface Transportation Board involving traffic originating in or destined to Alaska, Hawaii, or a territory or possession of the United States (see <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">49 U.S.C. 13102(15)</xref> and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">1 3702</xref>).</p>
							              <p id="d2726e94" class="- topic/p ">“Released or declared value” means the assigned value of the cargo for reimbursement purposes, not necessarily the actual value of the cargo. Released value may be more or less than the actual value of the cargo. The released value is the maximum amount that could be recovered by the agency in the event of loss or damage for the shipments of freight and household goods.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
