<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i8_402"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">8.402</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d454e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   The Federal Supply Schedule program
is also known as the GSA Schedules Program or the Multiple Award
Schedule Program. The Federal Supply Schedule program is directed
and managed by GSA and provides Federal agencies (see <xref href="FAR-i1118226.dita#i1118226"
                        base="i1118226"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">8.004</xref>) with a simplified
process for obtaining commercial supplies and services at prices
associated with volume buying. Indefinite delivery contracts are
awarded to provide supplies and services at stated prices for given
periods of time. GSA may delegate certain responsibilities to other
agencies (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>GSA has delegated authority to the VA to procure
medical supplies under the VA Federal Supply Schedules program).
Orders issued under the VA Federal Supply Schedule program are covered
by this subpart. Additionally, the Department of Defense (DoD) manages
similar systems of schedule-type contracting for military items;
however, DoD systems are not covered by this subpart.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   GSA schedule
contracts require all schedule contractors to publish an “Authorized
Federal Supply Schedule Pricelist” (pricelist). The pricelist contains
all supplies and services offered by a schedule contractor. In addition,
each pricelist contains the pricing and the terms and conditions
pertaining to each Special Item Number that is on schedule. The
schedule contractor is required to provide one copy of its pricelist
to any ordering activity upon request. Also, a copy of the pricelist may
be obtained from the Federal Supply Service by submitting a written
e-mail request to <xref href="schedules.infocenter@gsa.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">schedules.infocenter@gsa.gov</xref> or
by telephone at 1-800-488-3111. This subpart, together with the
pricelists, contain necessary information for placing delivery or
task orders with schedule contractors. In addition, the GSA schedule
contracting office issues Federal Supply Schedules publications
that contain a general overview of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS)
program and address pertinent topics. Ordering activities may request
copies of schedules publications by contacting the Centralized Mailing
List Service through the Internet at <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/cmls"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/cmls</xref>,
submitting written e-mail requests to <xref href="mailto:CMLS@gsa.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">CMLS@gsa.gov</xref>; or by completing
GSA Form 457, FSS Publications Mailing List Application, and mailing
it to the GSA Centralized Mailing List Service (7 SM), P.O. Box
6477, Fort Worth, TX 76115. Copies of GSA Form 457 may also be obtained
from the above-referenced points of contact.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d454e56" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         GSA
offers an on-line shopping service called “GSA Advantage!” through
which ordering activities may place orders against Schedules. (Ordering
activities may also use GSA Advantage! to place orders through GSA’s
Global Supply System, a GSA wholesale supply source, formerly known
as “GSA Stock” or the “Customer Supply Center.” FAR <ph class="- topic/ph ">
                           <xref href="FAR-i1117301.dita#i1117301"
                                 base="i1117301"
                                 outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">subpart  8.4</xref> 
                           
                           
                        </ph> is
not applicable to orders placed through the GSA Global Supply System.)
Ordering activities may access GSA Advantage! through the GSA Federal
Supply Service Home Page (<xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/fas"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/fas</xref>)
or the GSA Federal Supply Schedule Home Page at <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/schedules"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/schedules</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e81" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         GSA Advantage!
enables ordering activities to search specific information (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>national
stock number, part number, common name), review delivery options,
place orders directly with Schedule contractors (except see <xref href="FAR-i1117840.dita#i1117840"
                              base="i1117840"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">8.405-6</xref>) and pay for orders
using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e98" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d454e101" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e108" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e-Buy</i>,
GSA’s electronic Request for Quotation (RFQ) system, is a part of
a suite of on-line tools which complement GSA Advantage!. E-Buy
allows ordering activities to post requirements, obtain quotes,
and issue orders electronically. Posting an RFQ on e-Buy-</p>
                     <ol id="d454e114" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d461e121" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Is
one medium for providing fair notice to all schedule contractors
offering such supplies and services as required by, <xref href="FAR-i1117591.dita#i1117591"
                                    base="i1117591"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">8.405-2</xref>, and <xref href="FAR-i1117655.dita#i1117655"
                                    base="i1117655"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">8.405-3</xref>; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d461e136" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Is required
when an order contains brand-name specifications (see <xref href="FAR-i1117840.dita#i1117840"
                                    base="i1117840"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">8.405-6</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e150" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Ordering
activities may access e-Buy at <xref href="http://www.ebuy.gsa.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">http://www.ebuy.gsa.gov</xref>.
For more information or assistance on either GSA Advantage! or e-Buy,
contact GSA at Internet e-mail address <xref href="mailto:gsa.advantage@gsa.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">gsa.advantage@gsa.gov</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e167" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                   For more
information or assistance regarding the Federal Supply Schedule
Program, review the following website: <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/schedules"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/schedules</xref>. Additionally,
for on-line training courses regarding the Schedules Program, review
the following website: <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/training"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/training</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e183" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                   For administrative
convenience, an ordering activity contracting officer may add items
not on the Federal Supply Schedule (also referred to as open market
items) to a Federal Supply Schedule blanket purchase agreement (BPA)
or an individual task or delivery order only if-</p>
               <ol id="d454e188" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e193" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         All applicable
acquisition regulations pertaining to the purchase of the items
not on the Federal Supply Schedule have been followed (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> publicizing (<xref href="FAR-i1121120.dita#i1121120"
                              base="i1121120"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  5</xref>),competition
requirements (<xref href="FAR-i1120119.dita#i1120119"
                              base="i1120119"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  6</xref>),acquisition
of commercial items (<xref href="FAR-i1113784.dita#i1113784"
                              base="i1113784"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  12</xref>),
contracting methods (<xref href="FAR-i1112458.dita#i1112458"
                              base="i1112458"
                              outputclass="fm:Parts"
                              class="- topic/xref ">parts  13</xref>, <xref href="FAR-i1111055.dita#i1111055"
                              base="i1111055"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">14</xref>, and <xref href="FAR-i1109360.dita#i1109360"
                              base="i1109360"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15</xref>), and small business
programs (<xref href="FAR-i1101928.dita#i1101928"
                              base="i1101928"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  19</xref>));</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e227" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The ordering
activity contracting officer has determined the price for the items
not on the Federal Supply Schedule is fair and reasonable;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e236" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                          The items
are clearly labeled on the order as items not on the Federal Supply
Schedule and they conform to the rules for numbering line items
at subpart 4.10; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d461e245" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         All clauses
applicable to items not on the Federal Supply Schedule are included
in the order.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d461e256" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                   When using
the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment,
orders at or below the micro-purchase threshold are exempt from
verification in the System for Award Management as to whether the
contractor has a delinquent debt subject to collection under the
Treasury Offset Program (TOP).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
