<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
	  <concept id="i1096204"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">22.1203-3</ph> Waiver.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d1423e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1437e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The senior procurement executive of the procuring agency may waive some or all of the provisions of this subpart after determining in writing that the application of this subpart would not serve the purposes of Executive Order 13495 or would impair the ability of the Federal Government to procure services on an economical and efficient basis. Such waivers may be made for a contract, subcontract, or purchase order, or with respect to a class of contracts, subcontracts, or purchase orders. See 29 CFR 9.4(d)(4) for regulatory provisions addressing circumstances in which a waiver could or would not be appropriate. The waiver must be reflected in a written analysis as described in 29 CFR 9.4(d)(4)(i) and must be completed by the contract solicitation date, or the waiver is inoperative. The senior procurement executive shall not redelegate this waiver authority.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1437e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
					          </p>
					          <ol id="d1423e32" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1437e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                When an agency exercises its waiver authority with respect to any contract, subcontract, or purchase order, the contracting officer shall direct the contractor to notify affected workers and their collective bargaining representative in writing, no later than five business days after the solicitation issuance date, of the agency’s determination. The notice shall include facts supporting the determination. The contracting officer’s failure to direct that the contractor provide the notice as provided in this subparagraph shall render the waiver decision inoperative, and the contracting officer shall include the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1055581.dita#i1055581"
                              base="i1055581"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.222-17</xref> in the solicitation.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1437e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Where a contracting agency waives application to a class of contracts, subcontracts, or purchase orders, the contracting officer shall, with respect to each individual solicitation, direct the contractor to notify incumbent workers and their collective bargaining representatives in writing, no later than five business days after each solicitation issuance date, of the agency’s determination. The notice shall include facts supporting the determination. The contracting officer’s failure to direct that the contractor provide the notice provided in this subparagraph shall render the waiver decision inoperative, and the contracting officer shall include the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1055581.dita#i1055581"
                              base="i1055581"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.222-17</xref> in the solicitation.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1437e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                In addition, the agency shall notify the Department of Labor of its waiver decision and provide the Department of Labor with a copy of its written analysis no later than five business days after the solicitation issuance date (see 29 CFR 9.4(d)(2)). Failure to comply with this notification requirement shall render the waiver decision inoperative, and the contracting officer shall include the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1055581.dita#i1055581"
                              base="i1055581"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.222-17</xref> in the solicitation. The waiver decision and related written analysis shall be sent to the following address: U.S. Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, Branch of Government Contracts Enforcement, 200 Constitution Avenue, Room S-3006, Washington, D.C. 20210, or email to: <xref href="mailto:Displaced@dol.gov"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">Displaced@dol.gov</xref>.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
