<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1063335"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.203-7</ph> Anti-Kickback Procedures.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3055e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1124384.dita#i1124384"
                     base="i1124384"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">3.502-3</xref>
            </ph>, insert the
following clause:</p>
         <p rev="FAC 2020-06 June 5, 2020"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            class="- topic/p "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-007?>Anti-Kickback
Procedures (Jun 2020)<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.203-7 by revising the date of the clause and?></p>
         <ol id="d3032e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3055e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.</p>
               <p id="d3055e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e40"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Kickback,</i> as used in this clause, means
any money, fee, commission, credit, gift, gratuity, thing of value,
or compensation of any kind which is provided to any prime Contractor,
prime Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee
for the purpose of improperly obtaining or rewarding favorable treatment
in connection with a prime contract or in connection with a subcontract
relating to a prime contract.</p>
               <p id="d3055e30" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e46"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Person,</i> as
used in this clause, means a corporation, partnership, business
association of any kind, trust, joint-stock company, or individual.</p>
               <p id="d3055e34" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e52"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prime contract,</i> as used in this clause,
means a contract or contractual action entered into by the United
States for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment,
or services of any kind.</p>
               <p id="d3055e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e58"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prime Contractor</i> as
used in this clause, means a person who has entered into a prime
contract with the United States.</p>
               <p id="d3055e42" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e65"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prime
Contractor employee,</i> as used in this clause, means any officer,
partner, employee, or agent of a prime Contractor.</p>
               <p id="d3055e46" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e71"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontract,</i> as
used in this clause, means a contract or contractual action entered
into by a prime Contractor or subcontractor for the purpose of obtaining
supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind under a
prime contract.</p>
               <p id="d3055e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e77"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor,</i> as used
in this clause, (1) means any person, other than the prime Contractor,
who offers to furnish or furnishes any supplies, materials, equipment,
or services of any kind under a prime contract or a subcontract
entered into in connection with such prime contract, and (2) includes
any person who offers to furnish or furnishes general supplies to
the prime Contractor or a higher tier subcontractor.</p>
               <p id="d3055e54" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrc="d3059e83"
                     xtrf="_52.203-7"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontractor employee,</i> as used in this
clause, means any officer, partner, employee, or agent of a subcontractor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3055e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. chapter 87</xref>,
Kickbacks, prohibits any person from-</p>
               <ol id="d3032e78" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e67" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        Providing or
attempting to provide or offering to provide any kickback;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e72" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        Soliciting,
accepting, or attempting to accept any kickback; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e77" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        Including,
directly or indirectly, the amount of any kickback in the contract
price charged by a prime Contractor to the United States or in the
contract price charged by a subcontractor to a prime Contractor
or higher tier subcontractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3055e82" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d3032e117" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e87" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        The
Contractor shall have in place and follow reasonable procedures
designed to prevent and detect possible violations described in
paragraph (b) of this clause in its own operations and direct business
relationships.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e92" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        When the
Contractor has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation described
in paragraph (b) of this clause may have occurred, the Contractor
shall promptly report in writing the possible violation. Such reports
shall be made to the inspector general of the contracting agency,
the head of the contracting agency if the agency does not have an inspector
general, or the Attorney General.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e97" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        The Contractor
shall cooperate fully with any Federal agency investigating a possible
violation described in paragraph (b) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e102" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        The Contracting
Officer may (i) offset the amount of the kickback against any monies
owed by the United States under the prime contract and/or (ii) direct
that the Prime Contractor withhold from sums owed a subcontractor
under the prime contract the amount of the kickback. The Contracting
Officer may order that monies withheld under subdivision (c)(4)(ii)
of this clause be paid over to the Government unless the Government
has already offset those monies under subdivision (c)(4)(i) of this
clause. In either case, the Prime Contractor shall notify the Contracting
Officer when the monies are withheld.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3055e107" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-06 June 5, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-007?>The Contractor agrees to incorporate
the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c)(5) but
excepting paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, in all subcontracts under
this contract that exceed the threshold specified in Federal Acquisition
Regulation <xref href="FAR-id1617MD00HM7.dita#id1617MD00HM7"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">3.502-2</xref>(i) on the date
of subcontract award.<?FM MARKER [Why] paragraph (c)(5) and adding an undesignated parenthetical phrase at the end.?></ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p rev="FAC 2020-06 June 5, 2020"
            outputclass="Endofclause"
            class="- topic/p ">(End
of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
