<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1114045"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">11.501</ph> Policy.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d658e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d672e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer must consider the potential impact on pricing, competition, and contract administration before using a liquidated damages clause. Use liquidated damages clauses only when-</p>
					          <ol id="d658e23" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d672e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The time of delivery or timely performance is so important that the Government may reasonably expect to suffer damage if the delivery or performance is delinquent; and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d672e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The extent or amount of such damage would be difficult or impossible to estimate accurately or prove.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d672e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Liquidated damages are not punitive and are not negative performance incentives (see <xref href="FAR-i1104460.dita#i1104460"
                        base="i1104460"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">16.402-2</xref>). Liquidated damages are used to compensate the Government for probable damages. Therefore, the liquidated damages rate must be a reasonable forecast of just compensation for the harm that is caused by late delivery or untimely performance of the particular contract. Use a maximum amount or a maximum period for assessing liquidated damages if these limits reflect the maximum probable damage to the Government. Also, the contracting officer may use more than one liquidated damages rate when the contracting officer expects the probable damage to the Government to change over the contract period of performance.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d672e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer must take all reasonable steps to mitigate liquidated damages. If the contract contains a liquidated damages clause and the contracting officer is considering terminating the contract for default, the contracting officer should seek expeditiously to obtain performance by the contractor or terminate the contract and repurchase (see <xref href="FAR-i1067972.dita#i1067972"
                        base="i1067972"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  49.4</xref>). Prompt contracting officer action will prevent excessive loss to defaulting contractors and protect the interests of the Government.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d672e71" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The head of the agency may reduce or waive the amount of liquidated damages assessed under a contract, if the Commissioner, Financial Management Service, or designee approves (see Treasury Order 145-10).</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
