<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="id1994EM0D0L6"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.216-32</ph> Task-Order and Delivery-Order Ombudsman.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3263e8" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in 
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  href="FAR-i1104242.dita#i1104242"
                  class="- topic/xref ">16.506</xref>(j), insert the following clause:</p>
         <p id="id1994EN00RM8" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Task-Order and Delivery-Order Ombudsman (Sept 2019)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3263e19" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  In accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2017-title41/html/USCODE-2017-title41-subtitleI-divsnC-chap41-sec4106.htm"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 4106</xref>(g), the Agency has designated the following task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for this contract. The Ombudsman must review complaints from the Contractor concerning all task-order and delivery-order actions for this contract and ensure the Contractor is afforded a fair opportunity for consideration in the award of orders, consistent with the procedures in the contract.</p>
               <p id="d3263e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                        xtrc="52.216-32_d3248e39"
                        class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer to insert name, address, telephone number, and email address for the Agency Ombudsman or provide the URL address where this information may be found.</i>]</cite>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3263e33" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timeline for any other process (e.g., protests).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3263e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  Before consulting with the Ombudsman, the Contractor is encouraged to first address complaints with the Contracting Officer for resolution. When requested by the Contractor, the Ombudsman may keep the identity of the concerned party or entity confidential, unless prohibited by law or agency procedure.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section ">
            <p id="id199A9000NEN" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (Sept 2019)</i>. As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="FAR-i1104242.dita#i1104242"
                     class="- topic/xref ">16.506</xref>(j), add the following paragraph (d) to the basic clause.</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Contracts used by multiple agencies.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) This is a contract that is used by multiple agencies. Complaints from Contractors concerning orders placed under contracts used by multiple agencies are primarily reviewed by the task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for the ordering activity.</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The ordering activity has designated the following task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for this order:</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
               <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                     xtrc="52.216-32_d3248e90"
                     class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The ordering activity's contracting officer to insert the name, address, telephone number, and email address for the ordering activity's Ombudsman or provide the URL address where this information may be found.</i>]</cite>
            </p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Before consulting with the task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for the ordering activity, the Contractor is encouraged to first address complaints with the ordering activity's Contracting Officer for resolution. When requested by the Contractor, the task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for the ordering activity may keep the identity of the concerned party or entity confidential, unless prohibited by law or agency procedure.</p>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
