<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1048999"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.236-21</ph> Specifications and Drawings for Construction.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3545e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1078759.dita#i1078759"
                     base="i1078759"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">36.521</xref>
				        </ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Specifications and Drawings for Construction (Feb 1997)</p>
			      <ol id="d3527e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall keep on the work site a copy of the drawings and specifications and shall at all times give the Contracting Officer access thereto. Anything mentioned in the specifications and not shown on the drawings, or shown on the drawings and not mentioned in the specifications, shall be of like effect as if shown or mentioned in both. In case of difference between drawings and specifications, the specifications shall govern. In case of discrepancy in the figures, in the drawings, or in the specifications, the matter shall be promptly submitted to the Contracting Officer, who shall promptly make a determination in writing. Any adjustment by the Contractor without such a determination shall be at its own risk and expense. The Contracting Officer shall furnish from time to time such detailed drawings and other information as considered necessary, unless otherwise provided.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Wherever in the specifications or upon the drawings the words “directed,” “required,” “ordered,” “designated,” “prescribed,” or words of like import are used, it shall be understood that the “direction,” “requirement,” “order,” “designation,” or “prescription,” of the Contracting Officer is intended and similarly the words “approved,” “acceptable,” “satisfactory,” or words of like import shall mean “approved by,” or “acceptable to,” or “satisfactory to” the Contracting Officer, unless otherwise expressly stated.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Where “as shown,” “as indicated,” “as detailed,” or words of similar import are used, it shall be understood that the reference is made to the drawings accompanying this contract unless stated otherwise. The word “provided” as used herein shall be understood to mean “provide complete in place,” that is “furnished and installed.”</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Shop drawings means drawings, submitted to the Government by the Contractor, subcontractor, or any lower tier subcontractor pursuant to a construction contract, showing in detail (1)the proposed fabrication and assembly of structural elements, and (2)the installation (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>fit, and attachment details) of materials or equipment. It includes drawings, diagrams, layouts, schematics, descriptive literature, illustrations, schedules, performance and test data, and similar materials furnished by the contractor to explain in detail specific portions of the work required by the contract. The Government may duplicate, use, and disclose in any manner and for any purpose shop drawings delivered under this contract.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If this contract requires shop drawings, the Contractor shall coordinate all such drawings, and review them for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with contract requirements and shall indicate its approval thereon as evidence of such coordination and review. Shop drawings submitted to the Contracting Officer without evidence of the Contractor’s approval may be returned for resubmission. The Contracting Officer will indicate an approval or disapproval of the shop drawings and if not approved as submitted shall indicate the Government’s reasons therefor. Any work done before such approval shall be at the Contractor’s risk. Approval by the Contracting Officer shall not relieve the Contractor from responsibility for any errors or omissions in such drawings, nor from responsibility for complying with the requirements of this contract, except with respect to variations described and approved in accordance with (f) of this clause.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e78" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If shop drawings show variations from the contract requirements, the Contractor shall describe such variations in writing, separate from the drawings, at the time of submission. If the Contracting Officer approves any such variation, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification, except that, if the variation is minor or does not involve a change in price or in time of performance, a modification need not be issued.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3545e87" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer for approval four copies (unless otherwise indicated) of all shop drawings as called for under the various headings of these specifications. Three sets (unless otherwise indicated) of all shop drawings, will be retained by the Contracting Officer and one set will be returned to the Contractor.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
			      <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section ">
				<?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. When record shop drawings are required and reproducible shop drawings are needed, add the following sentences to paragraph (g) of the basic clause:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="NoIndent">Upon completing the work under this contract, the Contractor shall furnish a complete set of all shop drawings as finally approved. These drawings shall show all changes and revisions made up to the time the equipment is completed and accepted.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. When record shop drawings are required and reproducible shop drawings are not needed, the following sentences shall be added to paragraph (g) of the basic clause:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="NoIndent">Upon completing the work under this contract, the Contractor shall furnish _____ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer complete by inserting desired amount</i>] sets of prints of all shop drawings as finally approved. These drawings shall show changes and revisions made up to the time the equipment is completed and accepted.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
			      </section>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
