<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1106066"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">15.403-4</ph> Requiring certified
cost or pricing data (10 U.S.C. 2306a and 41 U.S.C. chapter 35).</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d907e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d929e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d907e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d929e15" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The contracting
officer shall obtain certified cost or pricing data only if the
contracting officer concludes that none of the exceptions in <xref href="FAR-i1105936.dita#i1105936"
                              base="i1105936"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(b) applies. However,
if the contracting officer has reason to believe exceptional circumstances
exist and has sufficient data available to determine a fair and
reasonable price, then the contracting officer should consider requesting
a waiver under the exception at <xref href="FAR-i1105936.dita#i1105936"
                              base="i1105936"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(b)(4). <ph rev="FAC 2020-07 August 3, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-005?>The threshold for obtaining
certified cost or pricing data is $750,000 for prime contracts awarded
before July 1, 2018, and $2 million for prime contracts awarded on
or after July 1, 2018.<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 15.403-4 by—
a. Revising the third sentence of paragraph (a)(1) introductory text;?></ph>When a clause refers to this threshold,
and if the threshold is adjusted for inflation pursuant to <xref href="FAR-id1617MD00FX5.dita#id1617MD00FX5"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">1.109</xref>(a), then pursuant
to <xref href="FAR-id1617MD00FX5.dita#id1617MD00FX5"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">1.109</xref>(d) the changed threshold
applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there
is a subsequent threshold adjustment. Unless an exception applies,
certified cost or pricing data are required before accomplishing
any of the following actions expected to exceed the current threshold
or, in the case of existing contracts, the threshold specified in
the contract:</p>
                     <ol id="d907e39" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d929e38" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The award of any negotiated contract
(except for undefinitized actions such as letter contracts).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d929e43" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The award
of a subcontract at any tier, if the contractor and each higher-tier
subcontractor were required to furnish certified cost or pricing
data (but see waivers at <xref href="FAR-i1105936.dita#i1105936"
                                    base="i1105936"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(c)(4)).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d929e51" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The modification
of any sealed bid or negotiated contract (whether or not certified
cost or pricing data were initially required) or any subcontract
covered by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this subsection. <ph rev="FAC 2020-07 August 3, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-005?>Price adjustment amounts must
consider both increases and decreases (e.g., a $500,000 modification
resulting from a reduction of $1,500,000 and an increase of $1,000,000
is a $2,500,000 pricing adjustment exceeding the $2,000,000 threshold).<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Revising the second sentence of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) introductory text; and?></ph> This requirement
does not apply when unrelated and separately priced changes for
which certified cost or pricing data would not otherwise be required
are included for administrative convenience in the same modification.
Negotiated final pricing actions (such as termination settlements
and total final price agreements for fixed-price incentive and redeterminable
contracts) are contract modifications requiring certified cost or
pricing data if-</p>
                           <ol id="d907e73" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d929e62" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> The total final price agreement
for such settlements or agreements exceeds the pertinent threshold
set forth at paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d929e67" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> The partial
termination settlement plus the estimate to complete the continued
portion of the contract exceeds the pertinent threshold set forth
at paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection (see <xref href="FAR-i1068636.dita#i1068636"
                                          base="i1068636"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">49.105</xref>(c)(15)).</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d929e75" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Unless prohibited
because an exception at <xref href="FAR-i1105936.dita#i1105936"
                              base="i1105936"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(b)
applies, the head of the contracting activity, without power of
delegation, may authorize the contracting officer to obtain certified
cost or pricing data for pricing actions below the pertinent threshold
in paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection, provided the action exceeds
the simplified acquisition threshold. The head of the contracting
activity shall justify the requirement for certified cost or pricing
data. The documentation shall include a written finding that certified
cost or pricing data are necessary to determine whether the price is
fair and reasonable and the facts supporting that finding.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d929e83" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-07 August 3, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-005?>Upon the request of a contractor
that was required to submit certified cost or pricing data in connection
with a prime contract entered into before July 1, 2018, the contracting
officer shall modify the contract, without requiring consideration,
to reflect a $2 million threshold for obtaining certified cost or
pricing data on subcontracts entered on and after July 1, 2018.
See <xref href="FAR-i1106593.dita#i1106593"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref>.<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Adding paragraph (a)(3).?></ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d929e94" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> When certified
cost or pricing data are required, the contracting officer shall
require the contractor or prospective contractor to submit to the
contracting officer (and to have any subcontractor or prospective
subcontractor submit to the prime contractor or appropriate subcontractor
tier) the following in support of any proposal:</p>
               <ol id="d907e122" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d929e100" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The certified
cost or pricing data and data other than certified cost or pricing
data required by the contracting officer to determine that the price
is fair and reasonable.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d929e105" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A Certificate
of Current Cost or Pricing Data, in the format specified in <xref href="FAR-i1106384.dita#i1106384"
                              base="i1106384"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.406-2</xref>, certifying that
to the best of its knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data
were accurate, complete, and current as of the date of agreement
on price or, if applicable, an earlier date agreed upon between
the parties that is as close as practicable to the date of agreement on
price.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d929e113" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> If certified
cost or pricing data are requested and submitted by an offeror,
but an exception is later found to apply, the data must not be considered
certified cost or pricing data as defined in <xref href="FAR-i1125359.dita#i1125359"
                        base="i1125359"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> and must not be
certified in accordance with <xref href="FAR-i1106384.dita#i1106384"
                        base="i1106384"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.406-2</xref>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d929e123" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The requirements
of this subsection also apply to contracts entered into by an agency
on behalf of a foreign government.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
