<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1100224"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.702</ph> Statutory requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Any contractor receiving a contract with a value greater
than the simplified acquisition threshold must agree in the contract that
small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns will have the maximum practicable
opportunity to participate in contract performance consistent with
its efficient performance. It is further the policy of the United
States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure
the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of their
subcontracts with small business, veteran-owned small business,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small
disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns.</p>
         <ol id="d1180e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1201e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1180e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1201e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>Except as stated in paragraph
(b) of this section, section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (<xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2018-title15/html/USCODE-2018-title15-chap14A-sec637.htm"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(</xref>d)) imposes
the following requirements regarding subcontracting with small businesses
and small business subcontracting plans:<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.702 by revising paragraph (a).?></ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203DA0709PN" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">In negotiated acquisitions,
each solicitation of offers to perform a contract that is expected
to exceed $700,000 ($1.5 million for construction) and that has
subcontracting possibilities, shall require the apparently successful offeror
to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan. If the apparently successful
offeror fails to negotiate a subcontracting plan acceptable to the
contracting officer within the time limit prescribed by the contracting
officer, the offeror will be ineligible for award. For a multiple-award
contract with more than one North American Industry Classification
System (NAICS) code, see paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203DA070F7Q" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">In sealed bidding acquisitions,
each invitation for bids to perform a contract that is expected
to exceed $700,000 ($1.5 million for construction) and that has
subcontracting possibilities, shall require the bidder selected
for award to submit a subcontracting plan. If the selected bidder
fails to submit a plan within the time limit prescribed by the contracting
officer, the bidder will be ineligible for award. For a multiple-award
contract with more than one NAICS code, see paragraph (a)(2)(i)
of this section</ph>.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203DA070G30" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">Each contract modification
that causes the value of a contract without a subcontracting plan
to exceed $700,000 ($1.5 million for construction), shall require
the contractor to submit a subcontracting plan for the contract,
if the contracting officer determines that subcontracting opportunities
exist. For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code,
see paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1201e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203DA070WRO" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">For a multiple-award contract
with more than one NAICS code, the solicitation referenced in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)
and (ii) of this section shall require the apparently successful
offeror to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan for either the
distinct portion(s) or category(ies) of their proposal for which
the offeror is other than small or for the entirety of their proposal,
at the offeror's discretion. When determining the need for a subcontracting plan,
the contracting officer shall consider the cumulative dollar value
of the portion(s) or category(ies) of the offeror's proposal for
which the offeror is other than small.</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203DA070YE9" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">For a multiple-award contract
with more than one NAICS code, the modification referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)
of this section shall require the contractor to submit an acceptable
subcontracting plan for either the distinct portion(s) or category(ies)
of the contract for which the contractor is other than small or
for the entirety of their contract, at the contractor's discretion.
When determining the need for a subcontracting plan, the contracting officer
shall consider the cumulative dollar value of the portion(s) or
category(ies) of the contract for which the contractor is other
than small.</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1201e62" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Subcontracting
plans (see <ph class="- topic/ph ">paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section)</ph> are
not required–</p>
               <ol id="d1180e68" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1201e75" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> From small business concerns;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1201e84" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For personal
services contracts;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1201e93" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> For contracts
or contract modifications that will be performed entirely outside
of the United States and its outlying areas; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1201e102" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> For modifications
that are within the scope of the contract and the contract does
not contain the clause at <xref href="FAR-i52_219-8.dita#i52_219-8"
                              base="i1057444"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-8</xref>,
Utilization of Small Business Concerns.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1201e116" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> As stated
in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
                     <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(9)</xref>,</ph> any
contractor or subcontractor failing to comply in good faith with
the requirements of the subcontracting plan is in material breach
of its contract. Further, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)</xref> directs
that a contractor’s failure to make a good faith effort to comply
with the requirements of the subcontracting plan shall result in
the imposition of liquidated damages.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1201e134" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> As authorized
by <ph class="- topic/ph ">
                     <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(12)</xref>,</ph> certain
costs incurred by a mentor firm in providing developmental assistance to
a protégé firm under the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protégé
Program, may be credited as if they were subcontract awards to a
protégé firm for the purpose of determining whether the mentor firm
attains the applicable goals under any subcontracting plan entered
into with any executive agency. However, the mentor-protégé agreement
must have been approved by the Director, Small Business Programs
of the cognizant DoD military department or defense agency, before developmental
assistance costs may be credited against subcontract goals. A list
of approved agreements may be obtained at <xref href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/osbp/mentor_protege/"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.acq.osd.mil/osbp/mentor_protege/</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>