<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1115270"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.405-2</ph> Restrictions on subcontracting.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d584e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d605e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> When a contractor debarred, suspended,
or proposed for debarment is proposed as a subcontractor for any
subcontract subject to Government consent (see <xref href="FAR-i1073536.dita#i1073536"
                        base="i1073536"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  44.2</xref>), contracting
officers shall not consent to subcontracts with such contractors
unless the agency head states in writing the compelling reasons
for this approval action. (See <xref href="FAR-i1115236.dita#i1115236"
                        base="i1115236"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.405</xref>(b)
concerning declarations of ineligibility affecting sub-contracting.)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d605e21" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The Government
suspends or debars contractors to protect the Government’s interests. <ph rev="FAC 2020-06 June 5, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2018-007?>Contractors are prohibited
from entering into any subcontract in excess of $35,000, other than
a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, with
a contractor that has been debarred, suspended, or proposed for
debarment, unless there is a compelling reason to do so.<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 9.405-2 by revising the second sentence in the introductory text of paragraph (b).?></ph> If
a contractor intends to enter into a subcontract in excess of $35,000,
other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf
item, with a party that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for
debarment as evidenced by the party's having an active exclusion
record in SAM (see <xref href="FAR-i1115204.dita#i1115204"
                        base="i1115204"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.404</xref>),
a corporate officer or designee of the contractor is required by
operation of the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1062590.dita#i1062590"
                        base="i1062590"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.209-6</xref>,
Protecting the Government’s Interests when Subcontracting with Contractors
Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment, to notify the contracting
officer, in writing, before entering into such subcontract. For
contracts for the acquisition of commercial items, the notification
requirement applies only for first-tier subcontracts. For all other
contracts, the notification requirement applies to subcontracts
at any tier. The notice must provide the following:</p>
               <ol id="d584e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d605e38" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
name of the subcontractor;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d605e43" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The contractor’s
knowledge of the reasons for the subcontractor having an active
exclusion record in SAM;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d605e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The compelling
reason(s) for doing business with the subcontractor notwithstanding
its having an active exclusion record in SAM; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d605e53" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The systems
and procedures the contractor has established to ensure that it
is fully protecting the Government’s interests when dealing with
such subcontractor in view of the specific basis for the party’s
debarment, suspension, or proposed debarment.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d605e58" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The contractor’s
compliance with the requirements of <xref href="FAR-i1062590.dita#i1062590"
                        base="i1062590"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.209-6</xref> will be reviewed
during Contractor Purchasing System Reviews (see <xref href="FAR-i1073426.dita#i1073426"
                        base="i1073426"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  44.3</xref>).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
