<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD040ZL"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">22.1018</ph> Notification to contractors and employees.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">The contracting officer shall take the following steps to ensure that service employees are notified of minimum wages and fringe benefits.</p>
			      <ol id="d1403e16" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1424e20" class="- topic/p ">
						            <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>As soon as possible after contract award, inform the contractor of the labor standards requirements of the contract relating to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and of the contractor’s responsibilities under these requirements, unless it is clear that the contractor is fully informed.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1424e29" class="- topic/p ">
						            <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>At the time of award, furnish the contractor Department of Labor Publication WH-1313, Notice to Employees Working on Government Contracts, for posting at a prominent and accessible place at the worksite before contract performance begins. The publication advises employees of the compensation (wages and fringe benefits) required to be paid or furnished under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and satisfies the notice requirements in paragraph (g) of the clause at <xref href="FAR-i52_222_41.dita#i52_222_41"
                        base="i1056332"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.222-41</xref>, Service Contract Labor Standards.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1424e41" class="- topic/p ">
						            <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Attach any applicable wage determination to Publication WH-1313.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <msgblock props="Citation" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre sw-d/msgblock ">[54 FR 19816, May 8, 1989, as amended at 72 FR 63081, Nov. 7, 2007; 79 FR 24207, Apr. 29, 2014]</msgblock>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
