<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id1617MD0805P"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">25.302-4</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1617e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1638e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> 
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1617e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1638e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The policy,
responsibilities, procedures, accountability, training, equipping,
and conduct of personnel performing private security functions in
designated areas are addressed at 32 CFR part 159, entitled “Private
Security Contractors Operating in Contingency Operations”. Contractor
responsibilities include ensuring that employees are aware of, and
comply with, relevant orders, directives, and instructions; keeping
appropriate personnel records; accounting for weapons; registering
and identifying armored vehicles, helicopters, and other military
vehicles; and reporting specified incidents in which personnel performing
private security functions under a contract are involved.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1638e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In addition,
contractors are required to fully cooperate with any Government-authorized
investigation into incidents reported pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)
of the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1054921.dita#i1054921"
                              base="i1054921"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.225-26</xref>,
Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United
States, by providing access to employees performing private security
functions and relevant information in the possession of the contractor
regarding the incident concerned.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1638e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> 
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Implementing
guidance.</i> In accordance with 32 CFR part 159-</p>
               <ol id="d1617e56" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1638e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Geographic
combatant commanders will provide DoD contractors performing private
security functions with guidance and procedures for the operational
environment in their area of responsibility; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1638e69" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In a designated
area of combat operations, or areas of other significant military
operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense and only upon
agreement of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State,
the relevant Chief of Mission will provide implementing instructions
for non-DoD contractors performing private security functions and their
personnel consistent with the standards set forth by the geographic
combatant commander. In accordance with 32 CFR 159.4(c), the Chief
of Mission has the option of instructing non-DoD contractors performing
private security functions and their personnel to follow the guidance
and procedures of the geographic combatant commander and/or a sub-unified
commander or joint force commander where specifically authorized
by the combatant commander to do so and notice of that authorization
is provided to non-DoD agencies.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <msgblock props="Citation" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre sw-d/msgblock ">[78 FR 37672, June 21, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 67777, Sept. 30, 2016]</msgblock>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
