<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id1617MD00HRT"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">3.502-1</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this section-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">“Kickback” means any money, fee, commission, credit, gift, gratuity,
thing of value, or compensation of any kind which is provided to
any prime contractor, prime contractor employee, subcontractor,
or subcontractor employee for the purpose of improperly obtaining
or rewarding favorable treatment in connection with a prime contract
or in connection with a subcontract relating to a prime contract.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">“Person” means a corporation, partnership, business association
of any kind, trust, joint-stock company, or individual.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">“Prime contract” means a contract or contractual action entered
into by the United States for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials,
equipment, or services of any kind.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">“Prime Contractor” means a person who has entered into a prime
contractor with the United States.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">“Prime Contractor employee”, as used in this section, means any
officer, partner, employee, or agent of a prime contractor.</p>
         <p id="d122e32" class="- topic/p ">“Subcontract” means a contract or contractual
action entered into by a prime contractor or subcontractor for the
purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment, or <ph class="- topic/ph ">services</ph> of any kind under
a prime contract.</p>
         <p id="d122e42" class="- topic/p ">“Subcontractor”— </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d122e49" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Means
any person, other than the prime contractor, who offers to furnish
or furnishes any supplies, materials, equipment, or services of
any kind under a prime contract or a subcontract entered into in
connection with such prime contract; and </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d122e58" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Includes any person who offers to furnish
or furnishes general supplies to the prime contractor or a higher
tier subcontractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
