<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="i1073110"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">45.101</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this part-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Cannibalize” means to remove parts from Government property for use or for installation on other Government property.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Contractor-acquired property” means property acquired, fabricated, or otherwise provided by the contractor for performing a contract and to which the Government has title.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Contractor inventory” means-</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d2605e29" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Any property acquired by and in the possession of a contractor or subcontractor under a contract for which title is vested in the Government and which exceeds the amounts needed to complete full performance under the entire contract;</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Any property that the Government is obligated or has the option to take over under any type of contract, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, as a result either of any changes in the specifications or plans thereunder or of the termination of the contract (or subcontract thereunder), before completion of the work, for the convenience or at the option of the Government; and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e54" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Government-furnished property that exceeds the amounts needed to complete full performance under the entire contract.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p id="d2619e60" class="- topic/p ">“Contractor’s managerial personnel” means the contractor’s directors, officers, managers, superintendents, or equivalent representatives who have supervision or direction of-</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d2605e65" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e76" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                All or substantially all of the contractor’s business;</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e85" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                All or substantially all of the contractor’s operation at any one plant or separate location; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e94" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A separate and complete major industrial operation.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p id="d2619e93" class="- topic/p ">“Demilitarization” means rendering a product unusable for, and not restorable to, the purpose for which it was designed or is customarily used.</p>
			      <p id="d2619e96" class="- topic/p ">“Discrepancies incident to shipment” means any differences (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, count or condition) between the items documented to have been shipped and items actually received.</p>
			      <p id="d2619e102" class="- topic/p ">“Equipment” means a tangible item that is functionally complete for its intended purpose, durable, nonexpendable, and needed for the performance of a contract. Equipment is not intended for sale, and does not ordinarily lose its identity or become a component part of another article when put into use. Equipment does not include material, real property, special test equipment or special tooling.</p>
			      <p id="d2619e105" class="- topic/p ">“Government-furnished property” means property in the possession of, or directly acquired by, the Government and subsequently furnished to the contractor for performance of a contract. Government-furnished property includes, but is not limited to, spares and property furnished for repair, maintenance, overhaul, or modification. Government-furnished property also includes contractor-acquired property if the contractor-acquired property is a deliverable under a cost contract when accepted by the Government for continued use under the contract.</p>
			      <p id="d2619e109" class="- topic/p ">“Government property” means all property owned or leased by the Government. Government property includes both Government-furnished property and contractor-acquired property. Government property includes material, equipment, special tooling, special test equipment, and real property. Government property does not include intellectual property and software.</p>
			      <p id="d2619e112" class="- topic/p ">“Loss of Government property” means unintended, unforeseen or accidental loss, damage, or destruction of Government property that reduces the Government’s expected economic benefits of the property. Loss of Government property does not include occurrences such as purposeful destructive testing, obsolescence, normal wear and tear, or manufacturing defects. Loss of Government property includes, but is not limited to-</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d2605e169" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e134" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Items that cannot be found after a reasonable search;</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e143" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Theft;</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e152" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Damage resulting in unexpected harm to property requiring repair to restore the item to usable condition; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e161" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Destruction resulting from incidents that render the item useless for its intended purpose or beyond economical repair.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p id="d2619e206" class="- topic/p ">“Material” means property that may be consumed or expended during the performance of a contract, component parts of a higher assembly, or items that lose their individual identity through incorporation into an end-item. Material does not include equipment, special tooling, special test equipment or real property.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA0Z0KLK" class="- topic/p ">“Nonseverable” means property that cannot be removed after construction or installation without substantial loss of value or damage to the installed property or to the premises where installed.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA0Z0URM" class="- topic/p ">“Precious metals” means silver, gold, platinum, palladium, iridium, osmium, rhodium, and ruthenium.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA0Z3094" class="- topic/p ">“Production scrap” means unusable material resulting from production, engineering, operations and maintenance, repair, and research and development contract activities. Production scrap may have value when re-melted or reprocessed, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, textile and metal clippings, borings, and faulty castings and forgings.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA0ZE0ZW" class="- topic/p ">“Property” means all tangible property, both real and personal.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA0ZK0PE" class="- topic/p ">“Property Administrator” means an authorized representative of the contracting officer appointed in accordance with agency procedures, responsible for administering the contract requirements and obligations relating to Government property in the possession of a contractor.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA0006ES" class="- topic/p ">“Property records” means the records created and maintained by the contractor in support of its stewardship responsibilities for the management of Government property.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA000CJ8" class="- topic/p ">“Provide” means to furnish, as in Government-furnished property, or to acquire, as in contractor-acquired property.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA000KM0" class="- topic/p ">“Real property” See Federal Management Regulation 102-71.20 (41 CFR 102-71.20).</p>
			      <p id="id192BA000SCP" class="- topic/p ">“Sensitive property” means property potentially dangerous to the public safety or security if stolen, lost, or misplaced, or that shall be subject to exceptional physical security, protection, control, and accountability. Examples include weapons, ammunition, explosives, controlled substances, radioactive materials, hazardous materials or wastes, or precious metals.</p>
			      <p id="id192BA00I0N5" class="- topic/p ">“Unit acquisition cost” means-</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d2605e211" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e217" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                For Government-furnished property, the dollar value assigned by the Government and identified in the contract; and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2619e226" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                For contractor-acquired property, the cost derived from the contractor’s records that reflect consistently applied generally accepted accounting principles.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
