<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1117303"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">8.401</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Ordering activity” means an activity that is authorized to place orders, or establish blanket purchase agreements (BPA), against the General Services Administration’s (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule contracts. A list of eligible ordering activities is available at <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/schedules"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/schedules</xref>(click “For Customers Ordering from Schedules” and then “Eligibility to Use GSA Sources”).</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Multiple Award Schedule (MAS)” means contracts awarded by GSA or the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for similar or comparable supplies, or services, established with more than one supplier, at varying prices. The primary statutory authorities for the MAS program are <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 152(3)</xref>, Competitive Procedures, and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">40 U.S.C. 501</xref>, Services for Executive Agencies.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Requiring agency” means the agency needing the supplies or services.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Schedules e-Library” means the on-line source for GSA and VA Federal Supply Schedule contract award information. Schedules e-Library may be accessed at <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/elibrary"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">http://www.gsa.gov/elibrary</xref>.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Special Item Number (SIN)” means a group of generically similar (but not identical) supplies or services that are intended to serve the same general purpose or function.</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
