<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD00RZX"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.702</ph> Contracting with pools.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d622e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d636e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Except as specified in this subpart, a pool shall be treated the same as any other prospective or actual contractor.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d636e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer shall not award a contract to a pool unless the offer leading to the contract is submitted by the pool in its own name or by an individual pool member expressly stating that the offer is on behalf of the pool.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d636e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Upon receipt of an offer submitted by a group representing that it is a pool, the contracting officer shall verify its approved status with the SBA District Office Director or other approving agency and document the contract file that the verification was made.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d636e44" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Pools approved by the SBA under the Small Business Act are entitled to the preferences and privileges accorded to small business concerns. Approval under the Defense Production Act does not confer these preferences and privileges.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d636e53" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Before awarding a contract to an unincorporated pool, the contracting officer shall require each pool member participating in the contract to furnish a certified copy of a power of attorney identifying the agent authorized to sign the offer or contract on that member’s behalf. The contracting officer shall attach a copy of each power of attorney to each signed copy of the contract retained by the Government.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
