<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
  <concept id="i1053232"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_10"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_10"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_10" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.223-14</ph> Acquisition of EPEAT®-Registered Televisions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body"
            outputclass="Body"
            class="- topic/p "
            id="d3364e13">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1094423.dita#i1094423"
                     base="i1094423"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">23.705</xref>(d)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p otherprops="Ctr_SmCaps" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Acquisition of EPEAT®-Registered Televisions (Jun 2014)</p>
         <ol id="d3346e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3364e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Definitions. As used in this clause-</p>
               <p id="d3364e35" class="- topic/p ">“Television” or “TV” means a commercially available electronic product designed primarily for the reception and display of audiovisual signals received from terrestrial, cable, satellite, Internet Protocol TV (IPTV), or other digital or analog sources. A TV consists of a tuner/receiver and a display encased in a single enclosure. The product usually relies upon a cathode-ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display (LCD), plasma display, or other display technology. Televisions with computer capability (e.g., computer input port) may be considered to be a TV as long as they are marketed and sold to consumers primarily as televisions.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3364e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility, only televisions that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award, were EPEAT® bronze-registered or higher.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3364e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  For information about EPEAT®, see <xref href="http://www.epa.gov/epeat/"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.epa.gov/epeat/</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p otherprops="Body_Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_Body"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">Alternate I <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(<i otherprops="SmallCaps" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Jun</i> 2014). As prescribed in 23.705(d)(2), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</i>
            </p>
            <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_List1"
               outputclass="H_Body"
               class="- topic/p ">(b) Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility, only televisions that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award, were EPEAT® silver-registered or gold-registered.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
