<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id1989I600I4C"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.204-24</ph> Representation Regarding
Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3085e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref href="FAR-4.2105.dita#id1989H0G40RF"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">4.2105</xref>(a), insert the
following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications
and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment <ph outputclass = "SmCaps">(Dec 2019)</ph></p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The Offeror shall not complete the representation in this provision
if the Offeror has represented that it “does not provide covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a part of its offered
products or services to the Government in the performance of any
contract, subcontract, or other contractual instrument” in the provision
at <xref href="FAR-52.204-26.dita#id19CAC0P0ESS"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">52.204-26</xref>, Covered Telecommunications Equipment
or Services-Representation, or in paragraph (v) of the provision
at <xref href="FAR-i1060550.dita#i1060550"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">52.212-3</xref>, Offeror Representations
and Certifications-Commercial Items.</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3103e25" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions.</i> As
used in this provision—</p>
               <p id="d3103e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph ">“Covered telecommunications
equipment or services”, “critical technology”, and “substantial
or</ph> essential component” have the meanings provided in clause <xref href="FAR-52.204-25.dita#id1989I600I4C"
                        base="id1989I600I4C"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-25</xref>, Prohibition
on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance
Services or Equipment.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3103e39" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prohibition</i>.
Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232) prohibits the head of
an executive agency on or after August 13, 2019, from procuring
or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or
obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications
equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of
any system, or as critical technology as part of any system. Contractors
are not prohibited from providing—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3103e47" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A service that connects to the
facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection
arrangements; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3103e52" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Telecommunications
equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or permit
visibility into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits
or otherwise handles.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3103e57" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Procedures.</i> The
Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System
for Award Management (SAM) (<xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>)
for entities excluded from receiving federal awards for “covered
telecommunications equipment or services”.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3103e67" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Representation.</i> The
Offeror represents that it <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-24_d85e73">□</cite> will, <cite outputclass="Checkbox" xtrc="52.204-24_d85e76">□</cite> will not provide covered telecommunications
equipment or services to the Government in the performance of any
contract, subcontract or other contractual instrument resulting
from this solicitation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3103e74" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Disclosures.</i> If
the Offeror has represented in paragraph (d) of this provision that
it “will” provide covered telecommunications equipment or services”,
the Offeror shall provide the following information as part of the
offer—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3103e82" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph class="- topic/ph ">A
description of all</ph> covered telecommunications equipment and
services offered (include brand; model number, such as original
equipment manufacturer (OEM) number, manufacturer part number, or
wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3103e89" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Explanation
of the proposed use of covered telecommunications equipment and
services and any factors relevant to determining if such use would
be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b) of this provision;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3103e94" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> For services,
the entity providing the covered telecommunications services (include
entity name, unique entity identifier, and Commercial and Government
Entity (CAGE) code, if known); and</p>  
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3103e99" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> For equipment,
the entity that produced the covered telecommunications equipment
(include entity name, unique entity identifier, CAGE code, and whether
the entity was the OEM or a distributor, if known).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
