<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1089402"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">27.406-2</ph> Additional data requirements.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d1767e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1781e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            In some contracting situations, such as experimental, developmental, research, or demonstration contracts, it may not be feasible to ascertain all the data requirements at contract award. The clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052670.dita#i1052670"
                        base="i1052670"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-16</xref>, Additional Data Requirements, may be used to enable the subsequent ordering by the contracting officer of additional data first produced or specifically used in the performance of these contracts as the actual requirements become known. The clause shall normally be used in solicitations and contracts involving experimental, developmental, research or demonstration work (other than basic or applied research to be performed under a contract solely by a university or college when the contract amount will be $500,000 or less) unless all the requirements for data are believed to be known at the time of contracting and specified in the contract. If the contract is for basic or applied research to be performed by a university or college, and the contracting officer believes the contract effort will in the future exceed $500,000, even though the initial award does not, the contracting officer may include the clause in the initial award.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1781e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Data may be ordered under the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052670.dita#i1052670"
                        base="i1052670"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-16</xref> at any time during contract performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under the contract. The contractor is to be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery. In order to minimize storage costs for the retention of data, the contracting officer may relieve the contractor of the retention requirements for specified data items at any time during the retention period required by the clause. The contracting officer may permit the contractor to identify and specify in the contract data not to be ordered for delivery under the clause if the data is not necessary to meet the Government’s requirements for data. Also, the contracting officer may alter the clause by deleting the term “or specifically used” in paragraph (a) of the clause if delivery of the data is not necessary to meet the Government’s requirements for data. Any data ordered under this clause will be subject to the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052520.dita#i1052520"
                        base="i1052520"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref>, Rights in Data-General, (or other equivalent clause setting forth the respective rights of the Government and the contractor) in the contract. Data authorized to be withheld under such clause will not be required to be delivered under the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052670.dita#i1052670"
                        base="i1052670"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-16</xref>, except as provided in Alternate II or Alternate III, if included (see <xref href="FAR-i1089187.dita#i1089187"
                        base="i1089187"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">27.404-2</xref>(c) and (d)).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1781e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Absent an established program for dissemination of computer software, agencies should not order additional computer software under the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052670.dita#i1052670"
                        base="i1052670"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-16</xref>, for the sole purpose of disseminating or marketing the software to the public. In ordering software for internal purposes, the contracting officer shall consider, consistent with the Government’s needs, not ordering particular source codes, algorithms, processes, formulas, or flow charts of the software if the contractor shows that this aids its efforts to disseminate or market the software.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
