<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1045637"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.247-11</ph> Net Weight-Household Goods or Office Furniture.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3662e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1071046.dita#i1062304"
                     base="i1062304"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">47.207-4</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following clause in contracts for transportation or for transportation-related services when movements of Government employees’ household goods or relocations of Government offices are involved:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Net Weight-Household Goods or Office Furniture (Apr 1984)</p>
			      <ol id="d3645e24" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3662e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Net weight-full loads.</i>The net weight of the shipment shall be determined by deducting the tare weight of the vehicle (determined by having a certified weighmaster weigh on a certified scale the empty vehicle with all blankets, pads, chains, dollies, hand trucks, and all other necessary equipment inside the vehicle) from the gross weight of the vehicle (determined by having a certified weighmaster weigh on a certified scale the fully loaded vehicle before arrival at destination).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3662e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Net weight-part loads.</i>The net weight of the first part load shall be determined in the same manner as specified for a full load. The net weight of the second part load shall be determined by using as the tare weight of the vehicle the gross weight of the vehicle containing the first part load and deducting this weight from the new gross weight (determined by having the loaded vehicle weighed again, in the same manner as specified for the full load). The same procedure shall apply for each succeeding part load.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3662e53" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Weight certificates.</i>The contractor shall attach the original copy of each weight certificate to the invoice for services.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
