<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1099682"
            rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.1308</ph> 
         <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>Limitations on subcontracting
and nonmanufacturer rule.<?FM MARKER [Why] Revise section 19.1308.?></title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203GC0R0JY4" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions.</i> See <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-sec125-1.xml"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.1</xref> for definitions
of terms used in paragraph (b) of this section.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203GC0R0THS" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Limitations on subcontracting</i>.
To be awarded a contract or order under the HUBZone program, the
HUBZone small business concern is required—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0RL0PF" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>For services (except construction), to
spend at least 50 percent of the cost of performance incurred for
personnel on its own employees or on the employees of other HUBZone
small business concerns;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0S04PN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>For supplies or products (other than
a procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies or products),
to spend at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing, excluding
the cost of materials, performed by the concern or other HUBZone
small business concerns;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0S057Q" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> For general construction—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0S0KRO" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>To spend at least 15 percent of the cost
of performance incurred for personnel on its own employees; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0S0OE9" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>To spend at least 50 percent of the
cost of performance incurred for personnel on its own employees
or on a combination of its own employees and employees of HUBZone
small business concern subcontractors; or</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0S0630" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>or construction by special trade contractors—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0U0H4Y" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>To spend at least 25 percent of the
cost of contract performance incurred for personnel on its own employees;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0U0KXW" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>To spend at least 50 percent of the
cost of the contract incurred for personnel on its own employees
or on a combination of its own employees and employees of HUBZone
small business concern subcontractors.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203GC0R0UUI" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction.</i> Before issuing
a solicitation for general construction or construction by special
trade contractors, the contracting officer shall determine if at
least two HUBZone small business concerns can spend at least 50
percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel
on their own employees or subcontract employees of other HUBZone small
business concerns. If the contracting officer is unable to make
this determination, the contracting officer may waive the 50 percent
requirement; however, the HUBZone small business concern is still
required to meet the cost incurred for personnel requirements in
paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(4)(i).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203GC0R0VYK" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Compliance period.</i> A HUBZone
small business contractor is required to comply with the limitations
on subcontracting—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0U0ZQN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>For a contract
that has been set aside or awarded on a sole source basis to a HUBZone
small business concern, either by the end of the base term and then
by the end of each subsequent option period or by the end of the
performance period for each order issued under the contract, at
the contracting officer's discretion; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0U10BI" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>For an order set aside for HUBZone small
business concerns as Start Printed Page 11767described in 8.405-5
and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) or for an order issued directly to a HUBZone
small business contractor in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii), by
the end of the performance period for the order.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203GC0R0VHT" outputclass="Ital" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>Nonmanufacturer
rule.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0UD0BI" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>To be awarded a contract
or order for supplies as a nonmanufacturer under this subpart, a
contractor is required—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0V087U" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>To provide
the end item of a HUBZone small business manufacturer, that has
been manufactured or produced in the United States or its outlying
areas;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0V09BF" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>Not to exceed 500 employees;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0V0B2L" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>To be primarily engaged in the retail
or wholesale trade and normally sell the type of item being supplied;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203GC0V0CXK" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>To take ownership or possession of the
item(s) with its personnel, equipment, or facilities in a manner
consistent with industry practice.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0UL0X4" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>There are no class waivers or waivers
to the nonmanufacturer rule for individual solicitations for contracts
and orders awarded under the HUBZone Program.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203GC0UM0ZJ" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>For contracts and orders awarded under
the HUBZone Program at or below $25,000 in total value, a HUBZone
small business concern may supply the end item of any manufacturer,
including a large business, as long as the product acquired is manufactured
or produced in the United States.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>