<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1102811"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">17.502-1</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p "> </p>
         <ol id="d1068e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li id="i1102824" props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1082e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <ph class="- topic/ph "> </ph>Written
agreement on responsibility for management and administration.</p>
               <ol id="d1068e140" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Assisted acquisitions.</p>
                     <ol id="d1068e150" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1082e43" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Prior to
the issuance of a solicitation, the servicing agency and the requesting
agency shall both sign a written interagency agreement that establishes
the general terms and conditions governing the relationship between
the parties, including roles and responsibilities for acquisition
planning, contract execution, and administration and management
of the contract(s) or order(s). The requesting agency shall provide
to the servicing agency any unique terms, conditions, and applicable
agency-specific statutes, regulations, directives, and other applicable
requirements for incorporation into the order or contract. In the
event there are no agency unique requirements beyond the FAR, the requesting
agency shall so inform the servicing agency contracting officer
in writing. For acquisitions on behalf of the Department of Defense,
also see <xref href="FAR-i1102640.dita#i1102640"
                                    base="i1102640"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  17.7</xref>. for
patent rights, see <xref href="FAR-i1089896.dita#i1089896"
                                    base="i1089896"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">27.304-2</xref>.
In preparing interagency agreements to support assisted acquisitions,
agencies should review the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
guidance, Interagency Acquisitions, available at<xref href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/assets/OMB/procurement/interagency_acq/iac_revised.pdf"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/assets/OMB/procurement/interagency_acq/iac_revised.pdf</xref>.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1082e61" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Each agency’s
file shall include the interagency agreement between the requesting
and servicing agency, and shall include sufficient documentation
to ensure an adequate audit consistent with <xref href="FAR-i1122317.dita#i1122317"
                                    base="i1122317"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">4.801</xref>(b).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e75" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Direct
acquisitions</i>. The requesting agency administers the order; therefore,
no written agreement with the servicing agency is required.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1082e89" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                     <ph class="- topic/ph "> </ph>Business-case
analysis requirements for multi-agency contracts and governmentwide
acquisition contracts</i>. In order to establish a multi-agency
or governmentwide acquisition contract, a business-case analysis
must be prepared by the servicing agency and approved in accordance
with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) business case
guidance, available at.<xref href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/procurement/memo/development-review-and-approval-of-business-cases-for-certain-interagency-and-agency-specific-acquisitions-memo.pdf"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/procurement/memo/development-review-and-approval-of-business-cases-for-certain-interagency-and-agency-specific-acquisitions-memo.pdf</xref>.
The business-case analysis shall—</p>
               <ol id="d1068e212" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e108" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Consider
strategies for the effective participation of small businesses during
acquisition planning (see <xref href="FAR-i1118821.dita#i1118821"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.103</xref>(u));</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e120" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Detail
the administration of such contract, including an analysis of all
direct and indirect costs to the Government of awarding and administering
such contract;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e129" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Describe
the impact such contract will have on the ability of the Government
to leverage its purchasing power, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, will it have a negative
effect because it dilutes other existing contracts;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e141" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Include
an analysis concluding that there is a need for establishing the
multi-agency contract; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1082e150" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Document
roles and responsibilities in the administration of the contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>