<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1115091"
            otherprops="01-09"
            outputclass="H3_01-09"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.508</ph> Examples.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d628e13"
            otherprops="Body"
            outputclass="Body"
            class="- topic/p ">The examples in paragraphs (a) through
(i) following illustrate situations in which questions concerning
organizational conflicts of interest may arise. They are not all
inclusive, but are intended to help the contracting officer apply
the general rules in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1114988.dita#i1114988"
                     base="i1114988"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">9.505</xref>
            </ph> to individual contract
situations.</p>
         <ol id="d614e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   Company A agrees to provide systems
engineering and technical direction for the Navy on the powerplant
for a group of submarines (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>turbines,
drive shafts, propellers, etc.). Company A should not be allowed
to supply any powerplant components. Company A can, however, supply
components of the submarine unrelated to the powerplant (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>fire control, navigation,
etc.). In this example, the system is the powerplant, not the submarine,
and the ban on supplying components is limited to those for the
system only.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Company A is the systems engineering
and technical direction contractor for system X. After some progress,
but before completion, the system is canceled. Later, system Y is
developed to achieve the same purposes as system X, but in a fundamentally
different fashion. Company B is the systems engineering and technical
direction contractor for system Y. Company A may supply system Y
or its components.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   Company A develops new electronic
equipment and, as a result of this development, prepares specifications.
Company A may supply the equipment.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   XYZ Tool Company and PQR Machinery
Company, representing the American Tool Institute, work under Government
supervision and control to refine specifications or to clarify the
requirements of a specific acquisition. These companies may supply
the item.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                   Before an acquisition for information
technology is conducted, Company A is awarded a contract to prepare
data system specifications and equipment performance criteria to
be used as the basis for the equipment competition. Since the specifications
are the basis for selection of commercial hardware, a potential
conflict of interest exists. Company A should be excluded from the
initial follow-on information technology hardware acquisition.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e78" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                   Company A receives a contract
to define the detailed performance characteristics an agency will
require for purchasing rocket fuels. Company A has not developed
the particular fuels. When the definition contract is awarded, it
is clear to both parties that the agency will use the performance
characteristics arrived at to choose competitively a contractor
to develop or produce the fuels. Company A may not be awarded this
follow-on contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e87" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                   Company A receives a contract
to prepare a detailed plan for scientific and technical training
of an agency’s personnel. It suggests a curriculum that the agency
endorses and incorporates in its request for proposals to institutions
to establish and conduct the training. Company A may not be awarded
a contract to conduct the training.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e96" rev="FAC 2019-02 March 27, 2019" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                   Company
A is <?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 9.508 by revising paragraph (h).?>selected to <?FM MARKER [Why] Technical Amendments?>study the use of lasers in communications. The
agency intends to ask that firms doing research in the field make
proprietary information available to Company A. The contract must
require Company A to-</p>
               <ol id="d614e102" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d628e110" rev="FAC 2019-02 March 27, 2019" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Enter
into agreements with these firms to protect any proprietary information
they provide; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d628e119" rev="FAC 2019-02 March 27, 2019" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Refrain
from using the information in supplying lasers to the Government
or for any purpose other than that for which it was intended.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d628e130" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                   An agency that regulates an industry
wishes to develop a system for evaluating and processing license
applications. Contractor X helps develop the system and process
the applications. Contractor X should be prohibited from acting
as a consultant to any of the applicants during its period of performance
and for a reasonable period thereafter.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
