<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="i1062457"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            xtrc="TORP"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_1-9skipH3"
             xtrc="52.209‑1  "
             class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.209-1</ph> Qualification Requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body"
            outputclass="Body"
            class="- topic/p "
            id="d3106e13">As
prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1062590.dita#i1062590"
                     base="i1115973"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">52.209-6</xref>
            </ph>, insert the following
clause:</p>
         <p otherprops="Ctr_SmCaps" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Qualification Requirements (Feb 1995)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="H5_abc"
                  xtrc="(a) "
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e29">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition</i>. “Qualification
requirement,” as used in this clause, means a Government requirement
for testing or other quality assurance demonstration that must be
completed before award.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="H5_abc"
                  xtrc="(b) "
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e41">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  One or more
qualification requirements apply to the supplies or services covered
by this contract. For those supplies or services requiring qualification,
whether the covered product or service is an end item under this
contract or simply a component of an end item, the product, manufacturer,
or source must have demonstrated that it meets the standards prescribed
for qualification before award of this contract. The product, manufacturer,
or source must be qualified at the time of award whether or not
the name of the product, manufacturer, or source is actually included
on a qualified products list, qualified manufacturers list, or qualified
bidders list. Offerors should contact the agency activity designated
below to obtain all requirements that they or their products or
services, or their subcontractors or their products or services,
must satisfy to become qualified and to arrange for an opportunity
to demonstrate their abilities to meet the standards specified for
qualification.</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e47">(Name)
___________________________________________</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e50">(Address)
_________________________________________</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="H5_abc"
                  xtrc="(c) "
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e56">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  If an offeror,
manufacturer, source, product or service covered by a qualification
requirement has already met the standards specified, the relevant
information noted below should be provided.</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e62">Offeror’s
Name _____________________________________</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e65">Manufacturer’s
Name______ __________________________</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e68">Source’s
Name _____________________________________</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e71">Item
Name ________________________________________</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e75">Service
Identification ________________________________</p>
               <p otherprops="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  outputclass="Body_Alternate_NoIndent"
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e78">Test
Number _______________________________________ (to the extent known)</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="H5_abc"
                  xtrc="(d) "
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e84">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Even though
a product or service subject to a qualification requirement is not
itself an end item under this contract, the product, manufacturer,
or source must nevertheless be qualified at the time of award of
this contract. This is necessary whether the Contractor or a subcontractor
will ultimately provide the product or service in question. If,
after award, the Contracting Officer discovers that an applicable
qualification requirement was not in fact met at the time of award,
the Contracting Officer may either terminate this contract for default
or allow performance to continue if adequate consideration is offered
and the action is determined to be otherwise in the Government’s
best interests.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="H5_abc"
                  xtrc="(e) "
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e93">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  If an offeror,
manufacturer, source, product or service has met the qualification
requirement but is not yet on a qualified products list, qualified
manufacturers list, or qualified bidders list, the offeror must
submit evidence of qualification prior to award of this contract.
Unless determined to be in the Government’s interest, award of this
contract shall not be delayed to permit an offeror to submit evidence
of qualification.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="H5_abc"
                  xtrc="(f) "
                  class="- topic/p "
                  id="d3106e103">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Any change
in location or ownership of the plant where a previously qualified
product or service was manufactured or performed requires reevaluation
of the qualification. Similarly, any change in location or ownership
of a previously qualified manufacturer or source requires reevaluation
of the qualification. The reevaluation must be accomplished before
the date of award.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p otherprops="Body_Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End
of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
