<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1115019"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">9.505-2</ph> Preparing
specifications or work statements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d607e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin"
                otherprops="H5_6abc123"
                outputclass="H5_6abc123"
                class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d621e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d607e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d621e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         If a contractor prepares and
furnishes complete specifications covering nondevelopmental items,
to be used in a competitive acquisition, that contractor shall not
be allowed to furnish these items, either as a prime contractor
or as a subcontractor, for a reasonable period of time including,
at least, the duration of the initial production contract. This
rule shall not apply to-</p>
                     <ol id="d607e33" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d621e37" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Contractors
that furnish at Government request specifications or data regarding
a product they provide, even though the specifications or data may
have been paid for separately or in the price of the product; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d621e46" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Situations
in which contractors, acting as industry representatives, help Government
agencies prepare, refine, or coordinate specifications, regardless
of source, provided this assistance is supervised and controlled
by Government representatives.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d621e57" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         If a single contractor drafts
complete specifications for nondevelopmental equipment, it should
be eliminated for a reasonable time from competition for production
based on the specifications. This should be done in order to avoid a
situation in which the contractor could draft specifications favoring
its own products or capabilities. In this way the Government can
be assured of getting unbiased advice as to the content of the specifications
and can avoid allegations of favoritism in the award of production
contracts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d621e66" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         In development work, it is normal
to select firms that have done the most advanced work in the field.
These firms can be expected to design and develop around their own
prior knowledge. Development contractors can frequently start production
earlier and more knowledgeably than firms that did not participate
in the development, and this can affect the time and quality of
production, both of which are important to the Government. In many
instances the Government may have financed the development. Thus,
while the development contractor has a competitive advantage, it
is an unavoidable one that is not considered unfair; hence no prohibition
should be imposed.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin"
                otherprops="H5_6abc123"
                outputclass="H5_6abc123"
                class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d621e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d607e83" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d621e87" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         If a contractor prepares, or
assists in preparing, a work statement to be used in competitively
acquiring a system or services-or provides material leading directly,
predictably, and without delay to such a work statement-that contractor may
not supply the system, major components of the system, or the services
unless-</p>
                     <ol id="d607e93" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d621e97" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               It is the
sole source;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d621e106" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               It has
participated in the development and design work; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d621e115" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               More than
one contractor has been involved in preparing the work statement.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d621e126" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Agencies should normally prepare
their own work statements. When contractor assistance is necessary,
the contractor might often be in a position to favor its own products
or capabilities. To overcome the possibility of bias, contractors
are prohibited from supplying a system or services acquired on the
basis of work statements growing out of their services, <ph rev="FAC 2019-02 March 27, 2019" class="- topic/ph ">unless <?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 9.505-2 by removing from paragraph (b)(2) “unless excepted in subparagraph (1) above” and adding “unless excepted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section” in its place.?>excepted in <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] Technical Amendments?>paragraph
(b)(1) of this section</ph>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d621e142" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         For the reasons given in <xref href="#i1115019"
                              base="i1115019"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">9.505-2</xref>(a)(3), no prohibitions
are imposed on development and design contractors.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
