<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD0F0FL"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">32.305</ph> Loan guarantees for terminated contracts.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d2060e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2074e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The purpose of guaranteed loans; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>to provide for financing based on the borrower’s recoverable investment in defense production contracts, may also apply to contracts that have been terminated (partially or totally) for the convenience of the Government. Guaranteed loans also may be made before such termination if it is known that termination of particular contracts for the convenience of the Government is about to occur. These loans are expected to provide necessary financing pending termination settlements and payments. They may also finance continuing performance of defense production contracts that are eligible for guaranteed loans.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2074e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The procedure for such guarantees is substantially the same as that outlined in <xref href="FAR-i1082975.dita#i1082975"
                        base="i1082975"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.304</xref>, except that certificates of eligibility are not required for (1)contracts that have been totally terminated or (2)the terminated portion of contracts that have been partially terminated. The agency shall take precautions necessary to avoid Government losses and to ensure the loans will be self-liquidating from the proceeds of defense production contracts.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2074e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Loan guarantees for contract termination financing shall not be provided before specific contract terminations are certain.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
