<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1062820"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.211-7</ph> Alternatives to Government-Unique Standards.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3128e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1114514.dita#i1114514"
                     base="i1114514"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">11.107</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Alternatives to Government-Unique Standards (Nov 1999)</p>
			      <ol id="d3110e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3128e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            This solicitation includes Government-unique standards. The offeror may propose voluntary consensus standards that meet the Government’s requirements as alternatives to the Government-unique standards. The Government will accept use of the voluntary consensus standard instead of the Government-unique standard if it meets the Government’s requirements unless inconsistent with law or otherwise impractical.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3128e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If an alternative standard is proposed, the offeror must furnish data and/or information regarding the alternative in sufficient detail for the Government to determine if it meets the Government’s requirements. Acceptance of the alternative standard is a unilateral decision made solely at the discretion of the Government.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3128e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Offers that do not comply with the Government-unique standards specified in this solicitation may be determined to be nonresponsive or unacceptable. The offeror may submit an offer that complies with the Government-unique standards specified in this solicitation, in addition to any proposed alternative standard(s).</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
