<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1085654"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">31.205-46</ph> Travel costs.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1976e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1990e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   Costs for transportation, lodging,
meals, and incidental expenses.</p>
               <ol id="d1976e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Costs incurred
by contractor personnel on official company business are allowable,
subject to the limitations contained in this subsection. Costs for
transportation may be based on mileage rates, actual costs incurred,
or on a combination thereof, provided the method used results in a
reasonable charge. Costs for lodging, meals, and incidental expenses
may be based on per diem, actual expenses, or a combination thereof,
provided the method used results in a reasonable charge.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Except
as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this subsection, costs incurred
for lodging, meals, and incidental expenses (as defined in the regulations
cited in <ph class="- topic/ph ">(a)(2)(i) through (iii)
of this section)</ph> shall be considered to be reasonable and allowable
only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the
maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth
in the-</p>
                     <ol id="d1976e42" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e49" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Federal Travel Regulations, prescribed
by the General Services Administration, for travel in the contiguous United
States, available on a subscription basis from the-</p>
                           <p id="d1990e55" class="- topic/p "/>
                           <p id="d1990e57" class="- topic/p ">Superintendent of Documents</p>
                           <p id="d1990e60" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph ">U.S. Government Publishing Office</ph>
                           </p>
                           <p id="d1990e66" class="- topic/p ">Washington DC 20402</p>
                           <p id="d1990e70" class="- topic/p "/>
                           <p id="d1990e72" class="- topic/p ">Stock No.922-002-00000-2;</p>
                           <p id="d1990e75" class="- topic/p "/>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e80" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Joint
Travel Regulation, Volume2, DoD Civilian Personnel, AppendixA, prescribed
by the Department of Defense, for travel in Alaska, Hawaii, and
outlying areas of the United States, available on a subscription
basis from the-</p>
                           <p id="d1990e86" class="- topic/p "/>
                           <p id="d1990e88" class="- topic/p ">Superintendent
of Documents</p>
                           <p id="d1990e91" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph ">U.S. Government Publishing
Office</ph>
                           </p>
                           <p id="d1990e97" class="- topic/p ">Washington DC 20402</p>
                           <p id="d1990e101" class="- topic/p "/>
                           <p id="d1990e103" class="- topic/p ">Stock No.908-010-00000-1;
or</p>
                           <p id="d1990e106" class="- topic/p "/>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e111" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Standardized
Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Section925, “Maximum
Travel Per Diem Allowances for Foreign Areas,” prescribed by the
Department of State, for travel in areas not covered in <ph class="- topic/ph ">(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this paragraph,</ph> available
on a subscription basis from the-</p>
                           <p id="d1990e120" class="- topic/p "/>
                           <p id="d1990e122" class="- topic/p ">Superintendent of Documents</p>
                           <p id="d1990e125" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph ">U.S. Government Publishing Office</ph>
                           </p>
                           <p id="d1990e131" class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20402</p>
                           <p id="d1990e135" class="- topic/p "/>
                           <p id="d1990e137" class="- topic/p ">Stock No.744-008-00000-0.</p>
                           <p id="d1990e140" class="- topic/p "/>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e147" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         In special
or unusual situations, actual costs in excess of the above-referenced
maximum per diem rates are allowable provided that such amounts
do not exceed the higher amounts authorized for Federal civilian
employees as permitted in the regulations referenced in <ph class="- topic/ph ">(a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of
this section.</ph> For such higher amounts to be allowable, all
of the following conditions must be met:</p>
                     <ol id="d1976e114" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e160" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               One of the
conditions warranting approval of the actual expense method, as
set forth in the regulations referenced in paragraphs <ph class="- topic/ph ">(a)(2)(i),</ph> (ii), or (iii)
of this section, must exist.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e172" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               A written
justification for use of the higher amounts must be approved by
an officer of the contractor’s organization or designee to ensure
that the authority is properly administered and controlled to prevent
abuse.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e181" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               If it
becomes necessary to exercise the authority to use the higher actual
expense method repetitively or on a continuing basis in a particular
area, the contractor must obtain advance approval from the contracting
officer.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e190" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Documentation
to support actual costs incurred shall be in accordance with the
contractor’s established practices, subject to paragraph (a)(7)
of this <ph class="- topic/ph ">section,</ph> and provided
that a receipt is required for each expenditure of $75.00 or more.
The approved justification required by paragraph <ph class="- topic/ph ">(a)(3)(ii) of this section</ph> and,
if applicable, paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this <ph class="- topic/ph ">section</ph> must be retained.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e210" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        <ph class="- topic/ph ">Paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of
this section</ph> do not incorporate the regulations cited in <ph class="- topic/ph ">paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii),
and (iii) of this section</ph> in their entirety. Only the maximum
per diem rates, the definitions of lodging, meals, and incidental expenses,
and the regulatory coverage dealing with special or unusual situations
are incorporated herein.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e225" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         An advance
agreement (see <xref href="FAR-i1086218.dita#i1086218"
                              base="i1086218"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">31.109</xref>)
with respect to compliance with paragraphs(a)(2) and <ph class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> of this subsection may
be useful and desirable.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e241" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         The maximum
per diem rates referenced in paragraph (a)(2) of this subsection
generally would not constitute a reasonable daily charge-</p>
                     <ol id="d1976e183" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e251" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               When
no lodging costs are incurred; and/or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e260" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               On partial
travel days (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>day of departure and return).</p>
                           <p id="d1990e269" class="- topic/p ">Appropriate downward adjustments from the maximum
per diem rates would normally be required under these circumstances.
While these adjustments need not be calculated in accordance with
the Federal Travel Regulation or Joint Travel Regulations, they
must result in a reasonable charge.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e277" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         Costs
shall be allowable only if the following information is documented-</p>
                     <ol id="d1976e228" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e287" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Date
and place (city, town, or other similar designation) of the expenses;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e296" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Purpose
of the trip; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e305" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Name
of person on trip and that person’s title or relationship to the
contractor.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1990e318" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Airfare
costs in excess of the lowest priced airfare available to the contractor
during normal business hours are unallowable except when such accommodations
require circuitous routing, require travel during unreasonable hours,
excessively prolong travel, result in increased cost that would
offset transportation savings, are not reasonably adequate for the physical
or medical needs of the traveler, or are not reasonably available
to meet mission requirements. However, in order for airfare costs
in excess of the above airfare to be allowable, the applicable condition(s)
set forth above must be documented and justified.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1990e327" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
               </p>
               <ol id="d1976e281" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e337" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         “Cost
of travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft,”
as used in this <ph class="- topic/ph ">paragraph,</ph> includes
the cost of lease, charter, operation (including personnel), maintenance,
depreciation, insurance, and other related costs.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e349" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         The costs
of travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft are
limited to the allowable airfare described in paragraph (b) of this <ph class="- topic/ph ">section</ph> for the flight
destination unless travel by such aircraft is specifically required
by contract specification, term, or condition, or a higher amount
is approved by the contracting officer. A higher amount may be agreed
to when one or more of the circumstances for justifying higher than
allowable airfare listed in paragraph (b) of this <ph class="- topic/ph ">section</ph> are applicable,
or when an advance agreement under paragraph (c)(3) of this <ph class="- topic/ph ">section</ph> has been executed. In
all cases, travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft
must be fully documented and justified. For each contractor-owned,
-leased, or -chartered aircraft used for any business purpose which
is charged or allocated, directly or indirectly, to a Government
contract, the contractor must maintain and make available manifest/logs
for all flights on such company aircraft. As a minimum, the manifest/log
shall indicate-</p>
                     <ol id="d1976e300" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e368" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Date, time, and points of departure;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e377" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Destination,
date, and time of arrival;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e386" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Name
of each passenger and relationship to the contractor;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e395" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                                Authorization
for trip; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e404" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                               Purpose
of trip.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1990e415" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Where
an advance agreement is proposed (see <xref href="FAR-i1086218.dita#i1086218"
                              base="i1086218"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">31.109</xref>), consideration
may be given to the following:</p>
                     <ol id="d1976e360" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e428" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Whether scheduled
commercial airlines or other suitable, less costly, travel facilities
are available at reasonable times, with reasonable frequency, and
serve the required destinations conveniently.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1990e437" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Whether
increased flexibility in scheduling results in time savings and
more effective use of personnel that would outweigh additional travel
costs.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1990e450" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   Costs
of contractor-owned or -leased automobiles, as used in this paragraph,
include the costs of lease, operation (including personnel), maintenance,
depreciation, insurance, etc. These costs are allowable, if reasonable,
to the extent that the automobiles are used for company business.
That portion of the cost of company-furnished automobiles that relates to
personal use by employees (including transportation to and from
work) is compensation for personal services and is unallowable as
stated in <xref href="FAR-i1084735.dita#i1084735"
                        base="i1084735"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31.205-6</xref>(m)(2).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
