<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD00J9F"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">4.1001</ph> Policy.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">In order to improve the accuracy, traceability, and usability of procurement data, procurement instruments shall identify the supplies or services to be acquired as separately identified line items and, as needed, subline items.</p>
			      <ol id="d256e16" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d258e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Line items are established to define deliverables or organize information about deliverables. Each line item describes characteristics for the item purchased, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, pricing, delivery, and funding information.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d258e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Each line item may be subdivided into separate unique subsets (called subline items) to ease administration. If a line item has deliverable subline items, the line item is informational. Subline items differentiate between or among certain characteristics of the line item, such as colors or sizes, dates of delivery, destinations, or places of performance. Subline items are established to define deliverables or organize information about deliverables.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
