<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id1617MD00RFX"
            otherprops="01-09"
            outputclass="H3_01-09"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">11.403</ph> Supplies
or services.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d654e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d668e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   The contracting officer may express
contract delivery or performance schedules in terms of-</p>
               <ol id="d654e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d668e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Specific calendar dates;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d668e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Specific periods from the date
of the contract; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>from the
date of award or acceptance by the Government, or from the date
shown as the effective date of the contract;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d668e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Specific periods from the date
of receipt by the contractor of the notice of award or acceptance
by the Government (including notice by receipt of contract document
executed by the Government); or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d668e57" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         Specific time for delivery after
receipt by the contractor of each individual order issued under
the contract, as in indefinite delivery type contracts and GSA schedules.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d668e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   The time specified for contract
performance should not be curtailed to the prejudice of the contractor
because of delay by the Government in giving notice of award.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d668e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   If the delivery schedule is based
on the date of the contract, the contracting officer shall mail
or otherwise furnish to the contractor the contract, notice of award,
acceptance of proposal, or other contract document not later than
the date of the contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d668e86" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   If the delivery schedule is based
on the date the contractor receives the notice of award, or if the
delivery schedule is expressed in terms of specific calendar dates
on the assumption that the notice of award will be received by a
specified date, the contracting officer shall send the contract,
notice of award, acceptance of proposal, or other contract document by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any other method
that will provide evidence of the date of receipt.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d668e95" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                   In invitations for bids, if the
delivery schedule is based on the date of the contract, and a bid
offers delivery based on the date the contractor receives the contract
or notice of award, the contracting officer shall evaluate the bid
by adding 5 calendar days (as representing the normal time for arrival
through ordinary mail). If the contract or notice of award will
be transmitted electronically, (1)the solicitation shall so state;
and (2)the contracting officer shall evaluate delivery schedule based
on the date of contract receipt or notice of award, by adding oneworking
day. (The term “working day” excludes weekends and U.S. Federal
holidays.) If the offered delivery date computed with mailing or
transmittal time is later than the delivery date required by the
invitation for bids, the bid shall be considered nonresponsive and
rejected. If award is made, the delivery date will be the number
of days offered in the bid after the contractor actually receives
the notice of award.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
