<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1114432"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">11.101</ph> Order of precedence for requirements documents.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d634e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d655e17" class="- topic/p ">
						            <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Agencies may select from existing requirements documents, modify or combine existing requirements documents, or create new requirements documents to meet agency needs, consistent with the following order of precedence:</p>
					          <ol id="d634e23" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d655e27" class="- topic/p ">
								                <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Documents mandated for use by law.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d655e36" class="- topic/p ">
								                <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Performance-oriented documents (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> a PWS or SOO). (See <xref href="FAR-i1125359.dita#i1125359"
                              base="i1125359"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>.)</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d655e51" class="- topic/p ">
								                <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Detailed design-oriented documents.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d655e60" class="- topic/p ">
								                <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Standards, specifications and related publications issued by the Government outside the Defense or Federal series for the non-repetitive acquisition of items.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d655e71" class="- topic/p ">
						            <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>In accordance with OMB Circular A-119, “Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities,” and Section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995, Pub. L. 104-113 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 272</xref> note), agencies must use voluntary consensus standards, when they exist, in lieu of Government-unique standards, except where inconsistent with law or otherwise impractical. The private sector manages and administers voluntary consensus standards. Such standards are not mandated by law (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, industry standards such as ISO 9000, and IEEE 1680).</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <msgblock props="Citation" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre sw-d/msgblock ">[60 FR 48238, Sept. 18, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 44810, Aug. 22, 1997; 64 FR 51834, Sept. 24, 1999; 66 FR 65352, Dec. 18, 2001; 68 FR 43858, July 24, 2003; 71 FR 218, Jan. 3, 2006; 72 FR 63043, Nov. 7, 2007; 72 FR 73216, Dec. 26, 2007]</msgblock>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
