<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1046456"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.247-59</ph> F.o.b. Origin-Carload and Truckload Shipments.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3710e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1070782.dita#i1070782"
                     base="i1070782"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">47.305-16</xref>(a)</ph>, insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts when it is contemplated that they may result in f.o.b. origin contracts with shipments in carloads or truckloads. This will facilitate realistic freight cost evaluations of offers and ensure that contractors produce economical shipments of agreed size.</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">F.o.b. Origin-Carload and Truckload Shipments (Apr 1984)</p>
			      <ol id="d3693e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3710e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor agrees that shipment shall be made in carload or truckload lots when the quantity to be delivered to any one destination in any delivery period pursuant to the contract schedule of deliveries is sufficient to constitute a carload or truckload shipment, except as may otherwise be permitted or directed, in writing, by the Contracting Officer.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3710e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            For evaluation purposes, the agreed weight of a carload or truckload shall be the highest applicable minimum weight that will result in the lowest freight rate (or per car charge) on file or published in common carrier tariffs or tenders as of the date of bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of proposals).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3710e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            For purposes of actual delivery, the agreed weight of a carload or truckload will be the highest applicable minimum weight that will result in the lowest possible freight rate (or per car charge) on file or published as of date of shipment.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3710e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the total weight of any scheduled quantity to a destination is less than the highest carload/truckload minimum weight used for evaluation of offers, the Contractor agrees to ship such scheduled quantity in one shipment.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3710e65" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any increased costs to the Government resulting from failure to comply with the above requirements.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
