<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="id1617ME0035D"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">49.603-4</ph> Cost-reimbursement contracts-complete termination, with settlement limited to fee.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p outputclass="BlockIndent" class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert the following in Block 14 of <ph class="- topic/ph ">
						            <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/amendment-solicitationmodification-contract"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 30</xref>
					          </ph> for settlement of cost-reimbursement contracts that are completely terminated, if settlement is limited to fee</i>.]</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) This supplemental agreement settles the amount of fee due under the contract, terminated in its entirety by Notice of Termination dated ______.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The parties agree to the following:</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The Contractor has received $______ on account of its fee under the contract before the effective date of termination.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The Government agrees to pay to the Contractor or its assignee, upon presentation of a proper invoice or voucher, $______ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert net amount to be paid on account of fee</i>]. This sum, with sums previously paid, constitutes payment in full and complete settlement of the amount due the Contractor on account of its fee under the contract.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The Contractor’s allowable costs under the contract will be paid under the terms and conditions of the contract and <xref href="FAR-i1086363.dita#i1086363"
                  base="i1086363"
                  outputclass="fm:Parts"
                  class="- topic/xref ">parts  31</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1069121.dita#i1069121"
                  base="i1069121"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">49</xref> of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert paragraph(a)(3) of this subsection only if there are costs to be vouchered out (see <xref href="FAR-i1068192.dita#i1068192"
                     base="i1068192"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.302</xref>) or if there are costs to be covered later by a separate settlement agreement</i>.]</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Regardless of any other provision of this agreement, the following rights and liabilities of the parties under the contract are reserved: [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The following list of reserved or excepted rights and liabilities is intended to cover those that should most frequently be reserved and that should be scrutinized at the time a settlement agreement is negotiated (see <xref href="FAR-i1068860.dita#i1068860"
                     base="i1068860"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.109-2</xref>). The suggested language of the excepted items on the list may be varied at the discretion of the contracting officer. If accuracy or completeness can be achieved by referencing the number of a contract clause or provision covering the matter in question, then follow that method of enumerating reserved rights and liabilities. Omit any of the following that are not applicable and add any additional exceptions or reservations required.</i>]</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) All rights and liabilities, if any, of the parties, as to matters covered by any renegotiation authority.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) All rights and liabilities, if any, of the parties under those clauses inserted in the contract because of the requirements of Acts of Congress and Executive orders, including, without limitation, any applicable clauses relating to: labor law, contingent fees, domestic articles, and employment of aliens. [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">If the contract contains clauses of this character inserted for reasons other than requirements of Acts of Congress or Executive orders, the suggested language should be appropriately modified.</i>]</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) All rights and liabilities of the parties arising under the contract and relating to reproduction rights, patent infringements, inventions, or applications for patents, including rights to assignments, invention reports, licenses, covenants of indemnity against patent risks, and bonds for patent indemnity obligations, together with all rights and liabilities under the bonds.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) All rights and liabilities of the parties, arising under the contract or otherwise, and concerning defects, guarantees, or warranties relating to any articles or component parts furnished to the Government by the Contractor under the contract or this agreement.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v) All rights and liabilities of the parties under agreements relating to the future care and disposition by the Contractor of Government-owned property remaining in the Contractor’s custody.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi) All rights and liabilities of the parties relating to Government property furnished to, or acquired by, the Contractor for the performance of the contract.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vii) All rights and liabilities of the parties under the contract relating to options (except options to continue or increase the work under the contract), covenants not to compete, and covenants of indemnity.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(viii) All rights and liabilities, if any, of the parties under those clauses of the contract relating to price reductions for defective certified cost or pricing data.</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">(End of agreement)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
