<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1047097"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.246-13</ph> Inspection-Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of Improvements.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3638e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1072330.dita#i1072330"
                     base="i1072330"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">46.313</xref>
				        </ph>, insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Inspection-Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of Improvements (Aug 1996)</p>
			      <ol id="d3621e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3638e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Unless otherwise designated by the specifications, all workmanship performed under the contract is subject to Government inspection at all times and places where dismantling or demolition work is being performed. The Contractor shall furnish promptly, and at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities, labor, and materials necessary for safe and convenient inspection by the Government. The Government shall perform inspections in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3638e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor is responsible for damage to property caused by defective workmanship. The Contractor shall promptly segregate and remove from the premises any unsatisfactory facilities, materials, and equipment used in contract performance, and promptly replace them with satisfactory items. If the Contractor fails to proceed at once in a workmanlike manner with performance of the work or with the correction of defective workmanship, the Government may-</p>
					          <ol id="d3621e44" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3638e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                By contract or otherwise, replace the facilities, materials, and equipment or correct the workmanship and charge the cost to the Contractor; and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3638e57" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Terminate for default the Contractor’s right to proceed. The Contractor and any surety shall be liable, to the extent specified in the contract for any damage or cost of repair or replacement.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
