<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1062528"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.209-4</ph> First Article Approval-Government
Testing.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="prescribed" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3109e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed
in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1115767.dita#i1115767"
                     base="i1115767"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">9.308-2</xref>(a) and (b)</ph>,
insert the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3109e22" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">First Article Approval-Government
Testing <ph class="- topic/ph ">(Sep 1989)</ph>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer shall insert details</i>]</p>
         <ol id="d3091e36" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The
Contractor shall deliver ___unit(s) of Lot/Item ___ within ____
calendar days from the date of this contract to the Government at
______ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert name and address of the testing facility</i>]
for first article tests. The shipping documentation shall contain
this contract number and the Lot/Item identification. The characteristics
that the first article must meet and the testing requirements are
specified elsewhere in this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Within
_____ calendar days after the Government receives the first article,
the Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor, in writing,
of the conditional approval, approval, or disapproval of the first
article. The notice of conditional approval or approval shall not
relieve the Contractor from complying with all requirements of the
specifications and all other terms and conditions of this contract.
A notice of conditional approval shall state any further action
required of the Contractor. A notice of disapproval shall cite reasons
for the disapproval.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   If the
first article is disapproved, the Contractor, upon Government request,
shall submit an additional first article for testing. After each
request, the Contractor shall make any necessary changes, modifications,
or repairs to the first article or select another first article
for testing. All costs related to these tests are to be borne by
the Contractor, including any and all costs for additional tests
following a disapproval. The Contractor shall furnish any additional
first article to the Government under the terms and conditions and
within the time specified by the Government. The Government shall
act on this first article within the time limit specified in paragraph
(b) of this clause. The Government reserves the right to require
an equitable adjustment of the contract price for any extension
of the delivery schedule or for any additional costs to the Government
related to these tests.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   If the
Contractor fails to deliver any first article on time, or the Contracting
Officer disapproves any first article, the Contractor shall be deemed
to have failed to make delivery within the meaning of the Default
clause of this contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Unless
otherwise provided in the contract, the Contractor-</p>
               <ol id="d3091e85" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3109e87" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                         May
deliver the approved first article as a part of the contract quantity,
provided it meets all contract requirements for acceptance and was
not consumed or destroyed in testing; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3109e96" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                         Shall remove
and dispose of any first article from the Government test facility
at the Contractor’s expense.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e108" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   If the
Government does not act within the time specified in paragraph (b)
or (c) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall, upon timely
written request from the Contractor, equitably adjust under the
Changes clause of this contract the delivery or performance dates
and/or the contract price, and any other contractual term affected
by the delay.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e117" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The Contractor
is responsible for providing operating and maintenance instructions,
spare parts support, and repair of the first article during any
first article test.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e126" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Before
first article approval, the acquisition of materials or components
for, or the commencement of production of, the balance of the contract
quantity is at the sole risk of the Contractor. Before first article
approval, the costs thereof shall not be allocable to this contract
for (1)progress payments, or (2)termination settlements if the contract
is terminated for the convenience of the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3109e135" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The Government
may waive the requirement for first article approval test where
supplies identical or similar to those called for in the schedule
have been previously furnished by the Offeror/Contractor and have
been accepted by the Government. The Offeror/Contractor may request
a waiver.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?> 
            <p id="d3109e150" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Jan</i>1997)</i>. As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref href="FAR-i1115767.dita#i1115767"
                        base="i1115767"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.308-2</xref>(a)(2)</ph> and
(b)(2), add the following paragraph (j) to the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(j) The Contractor shall produce both
the first article and the production quantity at the same facility.</p> 
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
II (Sept1989)</i>. As prescribed in <xref href="FAR-i1115767.dita#i1115767"
                     base="i1115767"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">9.308-2</xref>(a)(3) and (b)(3),
substitute the following paragraph (h) for paragraph (h) of the
basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) Before first article
approval, the Contracting Officer may, by written authorization,
authorize the Contractor to acquire specific materials or components
or to commence production to the extent essential to meet the delivery
schedules. Until first article approval is granted, only costs for
the first article and costs incurred under this authorization are
allocable to this contract for (1)progress payments, or (2)termination
settlements if the contract is terminated for the convenience of the
Government. If first article tests reveal deviations from contract
requirements, the Contractor shall, at the location designated by
the Government, make the required changes or replace all items produced
under this contract at no change in the contract price.</p> 
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
