<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD0L04M"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">42.704</ph> Billing rates.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d2497e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2508e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor responsible under <xref href="FAR-i1075151.dita#i1075151"
                        base="i1075151"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42.705</xref> for establishing the final indirect cost rates also shall be responsible for determining the billing rates.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2508e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor shall establish billing rates on the basis of information resulting from recent review, previous rate audits or experience, or similar reliable data or experience of other contracting activities. In establishing billing rates, the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor should ensure that the billing rates are as close as possible to the final indirect cost rates anticipated for the contractor’s fiscal period, as adjusted for any unallowable costs. When the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor determines that the dollar value of contracts requiring use of billing rates does not warrant submission of a detailed billing rate proposal, the billing rates may be established by making appropriate adjustments from the prior year’s indirect cost experience to eliminate unallowable and nonrecurring costs and to reflect new or changed conditions.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2508e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Once established, billing rates may be prospectively or retroactively revised by mutual agreement of the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor and the contractor at either party’s request, to prevent substantial overpayment or underpayment. When agreement cannot be reached, the billing rates may be unilaterally determined by the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2508e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The elements of indirect cost and the base or bases used in computing billing rates shall not be construed as determinative of the indirect costs to be distributed or of the bases of distribution to be used in the final settlement.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2508e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When the contractor provides to the cognizant contracting officer the certified final indirect cost rate proposal in accordance with <xref href="FAR-i1075175.dita#i1075175"
                        base="i1075175"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42.705-1</xref>(b) or <xref href="FAR-i1075238.dita#i1075238"
                        base="i1075238"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42.705-2</xref>(b), the contractor and the Government may mutually agree to revise billing rates to reflect the proposed indirect cost rates, as approved by the Government to reflect historically disallowed amounts from prior years’ audits, until the proposal has been audited and settled. The historical decrement will be determined by either the cognizant contracting officer (<xref href="FAR-i1075175.dita#i1075175"
                        base="i1075175"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42.705-1</xref>(b)) or the cognizant auditor (<xref href="FAR-i1075238.dita#i1075238"
                        base="i1075238"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42.705-2</xref>(b)).</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
