<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="i1087633"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">29.304</ph> Matters requiring special consideration.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">The imposition of State and local taxes may result in special contract considerations including the following:</p>
			      <ol id="d1854e16" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1868e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            With coordination of the agency-designated counsel, a contract may (1)state that the contract price includes or excludes a specified tax or (2)require that the contractor take certain actions with regard to payment, nonpayment, refund, protest, or other treatment of a specified tax. Such special treatment may be appropriate when there is doubt as to the applicability or allocability of the tax, or when the applicability of the tax is being litigated.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1868e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The applicability of State and local taxes to purchases by the Federal Government may depend on the place and terms of delivery. When the contract price will be substantial, alternative places and terms of delivery should be considered in light of possible tax consequences.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1868e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Indefinite-delivery contracts for equipment rental may require the contractor to furnish equipment in any of the States. Since leased equipment remains the contractor’s property, States and local governments impose a wide variety of property, use, or other taxes on equipment leased to the Government. The amount of these taxes can vary considerably from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. See <xref href="FAR-i1087514.dita#i1087514"
                        base="i1087514"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">29.401-1</xref> for the prescription of the contract clause to be included in contracts when delivery points are not known at time of contracting.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1868e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The North Carolina State and local sales and use tax.</p>
					          <ol id="d1854e56" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1868e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The North Carolina Sales and Use Tax Act authorizes counties and incorporated cities and towns to obtain each year from the Commissioner of Revenue of the State of North Carolina a refund of sales and use taxes indirectly paid on building materials, supplies, fixtures, and equipment that become a part of or are annexed to any building or structure erected, altered, or repaired for such counties and incorporated cities and towns in North Carolina. In <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">United States</i> v. <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Clayton</i>, 250 F. Supp. 827 (1965), it was held that the United States is entitled to the benefit of the refund, but must follow the refund procedure of the Act and the regulations to recover what it is due.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1868e75" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The Act provides that, to receive the refund, claimants must file, within 6 months after the claimant’s fiscal year closes, a written request substantiated by such records, receipts, and information as the Commissioner of Revenue may require. No refund will be made on an application not filed within the time allowed and in such manner as the Commissioner may require. The requirements of the Commissioner are set forth in regulations that provide that, to substantiate a refund claim for sales or use taxes paid on purchases of building materials, supplies, fixtures, or equipment by a contractor, the Government must secure from the contractor certified statements setting forth the cost of the property purchased from each vendor and the amount of sales or use taxes paid. In the event the contractor makes several purchases from the same vendor, the certified statement must indicate the invoice numbers, the inclusive dates of the invoices, the total amount of the invoices, and the sales and use taxes paid. The statement must also include the cost of any tangible personal property withdrawn from the contractor’s warehouse stock and the amount of sales or use tax paid by the contractor. Similar certified statements by subcontractors must be obtained by the general contractor and furnished to the claimant. Any local sales or use taxes included in the contractor’s statement must be shown separately from the State sales or use taxes.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1868e84" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The clause prescribed at <xref href="FAR-i1087523.dita#i1087523"
                              base="i1087523"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">29.401-2</xref> requires contractors to submit to contracting officers by November30 of each year a certified statement disclosing North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid during the 12-month period that ended the preceding September30. The contracting officer shall ensure that contractors comply with this requirement and shall obtain the annual refund to which the Government may be entitled. The application for refund must be filed each year before March31 and in the manner and form required by the Commissioner of Revenue. Copies of the form may be obtained from the-</p>
							              <p id="d1868e93" class="- topic/p ">State of North Carolina, </p>
							              <p id="d1868e96" class="- topic/p ">Department of Revenue, </p>
							              <p id="d1868e99" class="- topic/p ">PO Box 25000 Raleigh, </p>
							              <p id="d1868e102" class="- topic/p ">North Carolina 27640.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
