<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1051584"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.229-10</ph> State of New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3462e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1087545.dita#i1087545"
                     base="i1087545"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">29.401-4</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">State of New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax (Apr 2003)</p>
			      <ol id="d3444e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Within thirty (30)days after award of this contract, the Contractor shall advise the State of New Mexico of this contract by registering with the State of New Mexico, Taxation and Revenue Department, Revenue Division, pursuant to the Tax Administration Act of the State of New Mexico and shall identify the contract number.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall pay the New Mexico gross receipts taxes, pursuant to the Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act of New Mexico, assessed against the contract fee and costs paid for performance of this contract, or of any part or portion thereof, within the State of New Mexico. The allowability of any gross receipts taxes or local option taxes lawfully paid to the State of New Mexico by the Contractor or its subcontractors will be determined in accordance with the Allowable Cost and Payment clause of this contract except as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall submit applications for Nontaxable Transaction Certificates, FormCSR-3 C, to the:</p>
					          <p id="d3462e53" class="- topic/p ">State of New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Dept. Revenue Division PO Box 630 Santa Fe, New Mexico 87509</p>
					          <p id="d3462e56" class="- topic/p ">When the Type 15 Nontaxable Transaction Certificate is issued by the Revenue Division, the Contractor shall use these certificates strictly in accordance with this contract, and the agreement between the (*________________) and the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e62" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall provide Type 15 Nontaxable Transaction Certificates to each vendor in New Mexico selling tangible personal property to the Contractor for use in the performance of this contract. Failure to provide a Type 15 Nontaxable Transaction Certificate to vendors will result in the vendor’s liability for the gross receipt taxes and those taxes, which are then passed on to the Contractor, shall not be reimbursable as an allowable cost by the Government.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e71" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor shall pay the New Mexico compensating user tax for any tangible personal property which is purchased pursuant to a Nontaxable Transaction Certificate if such property is not used for Federal purposes.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e81" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Out-of-state purchase of tangible personal property by the Contractor which would be otherwise subject to compensation tax shall be governed by the principles of this clause. Accordingly, compensating tax shall be due from the contractor only if such property is not used for Federal purposes.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e90" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The (*_______________) may receive information regarding the Contractor from the Revenue Division of the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department and, at the discretion of the (*_________________), may participate in any matters or proceedings pertaining to this clause or the abovementioned Agreement. This shall not preclude the Contractor from having its own representative nor does it obligate the (*______________) to represent its Contractor.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e99" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor agrees to insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (h), in each subcontract which meets the criteria in <xref href="FAR-i1087545.dita#i1087545"
                        base="i1087545"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">29.401-4</xref>(b)(1) through (3) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR Part29.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3462e111" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Paragraphs(a) through (h) of this clause shall be null and void should the Agreement referred to in paragraph (c) of this clause be terminated; provided, however, that such termination shall not nullify obligations already incurred prior to the date of termination.</p>
					          <p id="d3462e117" class="- topic/p ">[*Insert appropriate agency name in blanks.]</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
