<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1046398"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.247-55</ph> F.o.b. Point for Delivery of Government-Furnished Property.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3706e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1070743.dita#i1070743"
                     base="i1070743"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">47.305-12</xref>(a)(2)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">F.o.b. Point for Delivery of Government-Furnished Property (June 2003)</p>
			      <ol id="d3689e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3706e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, the Government will deliver any Government-furnished property for use within the contiguous United States or Canada to a point specified by the Contractor in the offer. If the Government makes delivery by railroad, the f.o.b. point will be private siding, Contractor’s plant. If the Contractor’s plant is not served by rail, the f.o.b. point will be railroad cars in the same or nearest city having rail service. The Government may choose the mode of transportation and the carriers and will bear the cost of all line-haul transportation to the specified destination.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3706e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the destination of the Government-furnished property is a Contractor’s plant located outside the contiguous United States or Canada, the f.o.b. point for Government delivery of Government-furnished property will be a Contractor-specified location in the contiguous United States. If the Contractor fails to name a point, the Government will select as the f.o.b. point the port city in the contiguous United States nearest to the Government-furnished property that has regular commercial water transportation services to the offshore port nearest the Contractor’s plant.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3706e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer or provided in the contract, the Contractor shall return all Government-furnished equipment, supplies, and property, including all property not returned in the form of acceptable end items, to the point at which the Government property was originally furnished to the Contractor under the contract. Notwithstanding the fact that the Government may have furnished the property at the Contractor’s plant, the Contracting Officer may direct the Contractor to deliver the Government property being returned to, and load, block, and brace it in, railway cars in the city in which the Contractor’s plant is located, or, if the Contractor’s city is not served by rail service, in the nearest city having rail service. Unless otherwise specified in the contract, all property shall be packed in containers conforming with the rules of common carrier published tariffs so as to be free of penalty charges by the carrier designated for shipment by the Government.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
