<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="id1617ME003EX"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">49.601-1</ph> Electronic notice.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d2944e13" class="- topic/p ">The contracting officer may provide expedited notice of termination by electronic means that includes a requirement for the contractor to confirm receipt. If the contractor does not confirm receipt promptly, the contracting officer shall resend the notice electronically, and expedite the letter notice described in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1067239.dita#i1067239"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.601-2</xref>
				        </ph>. If confirmation of the electronic notice is received, and the electronic notice includes all content in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1067239.dita#i1067239"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.601-2</xref>
				        </ph>, the contracting officer need not send the letter notice described in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1067239.dita#i1067239"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.601-2</xref>
				        </ph>.</p>
			      <ol id="d2930e34" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2944e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete termination:</i> The following electronic notice is suggested for use if a supply contract is being completely terminated for convenience. If appropriately modified, the notice may be used for other than supply contracts.</p>
					          <p id="d2944e47" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Date ____________</p>
					          <p id="d2944e50" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">XYZ Corporation New York, NY 12345</p>
					          <p id="d2944e53" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Contract No. ___________________ is completely terminated under clause ___________, effective __________________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert</i> “immediately, (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">today’s date</i>)” <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">or</i> “on ______________, 20_____,” <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">or</i> “as soon as you have delivered, including prior deliveries, the following items:” (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">list</i>)]. Immediately stop all work, terminate subcontracts, and place no further orders except to the extent [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert if applicable</i> “necessary to complete items not terminated or”] that you or a subcontractor wish to retain and continue for your own account any work-in-process or other materials. Provide by electronic means similar instructions to all subcontractors and suppliers. Detailed instructions follow.</p>
					          <p id="d2944e75" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">_______________________________________________________________________________</p>
					          <p id="d2944e79" class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr">(Contracting Officer)</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2944e85" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Partial termination:</i>The following electronic notice is suggested for use if a supply contract is being partially terminated for convenience. If appropriately modified, the notice may be used for other than supply contracts.</p>
					          <p id="d2944e94" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Date ____________</p>
					          <p id="d2944e97" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">XYZ Corporation New York, NY 12345</p>
					          <p id="d2944e100" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">Contract No.______________ is partially terminated under clause ___________, effective ____________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert</i> “immediately, (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">today’s date</i>)” <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">or</i> “on ________, 20____”]. Reduce items to be delivered as follows: [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert instructions</i>]. Immediately stop all work, terminate subcontracts, and place no further orders except as necessary to perform the portion not terminated or that you or a subcontractor wish to retain and continue for your account any work-in-process or other materials. Provide by electronic means similar instructions to all subcontractors and suppliers. Detailed instructions follow.</p>
					          <p id="d2944e115" outputclass="NoIndent" class="- topic/p ">_____________________________________________________________________________</p>
					          <p id="d2944e119" class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr">(Contracting Officer)</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
