<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1081480"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">32.803</ph> Policies.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d2145e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2159e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Any assignment of claims that has been made under the Act to any type of financing institution listed in <xref href="FAR-i1081466.dita#i1081466"
                        base="i1081466"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.802</xref>(b) may thereafter be further assigned and reassigned to any such institution if the conditions in <xref href="FAR-i1081466.dita#i1081466"
                        base="i1081466"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.802</xref>(d) and (e) continue to be met.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2159e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            A contract may prohibit the assignment of claims if the agency determines the prohibition to be in the Government’s interest.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2159e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Under a requirements or indefinite quantity type contract that authorizes ordering and payment by multiple Government activities, amounts due for individual orders for $1,000 or more may be assigned.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2159e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Any contract of a designated agency (see FAR <xref href="FAR-i1081459.dita#i1081459"
                        base="i1081459"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.801</xref>), except a contract under which full payment has been made, may include a no-setoff commitment only when a determination of need is made by the head of the agency, in accordance with the Presidential delegation of authority dated October3,1995, and after such determination has been published in the <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal Register.</i>The Presidential delegation makes such determinations of need subject to further guidance issued by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy. The following guidance has been provided:</p>
					          <p id="d2159e62" class="- topic/p ">Use of the no-setoff provision may be appropriate to facilitate the national defense; in the event of a national emergency or natural disaster; or when the use of the no-setoff provision may facilitate private financing of contract performance. However, in the event an offeror is significantly indebted to the United States, the contracting officer should consider whether the inclusion of the no-setoff commitment in a particular contract is in the best interests of the United States. In such an event, the contracting officer should consult with the Government officer(s) responsible for collecting the debt(s).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2159e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When an assigned contract does not include a no-setoff commitment, the Government may apply against payments to the assignee any liability of the contractor to the Government arising independently of the assigned contract if the liability existed at the time notice of the assignment was received even though that liability had not yet matured so as to be due and payable.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
