<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1108601"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">15.305</ph> Proposal evaluation.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d895e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d909e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Proposal evaluation is an assessment
of the proposal and the offeror’s ability to perform the prospective
contract successfully. An agency shall evaluate competitive proposals
and then assess their relative qualities solely on the factors and subfactors
specified in the solicitation. Evaluations may be conducted using
any rating method or combination of methods, including color or
adjectival ratings, numerical weights, and ordinal rankings. The
relative strengths, deficiencies, significant weaknesses, and risks
supporting proposal evaluation shall be documented in the contract
file.</p>
               <ol id="d895e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d909e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost or price evaluation</i>.
Normally, competition establishes price reasonableness. Therefore,
when contracting on a firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic
price adjustment basis, comparison of the proposed prices will usually satisfy
the requirement to perform a price analysis, and a cost analysis
need not be performed. <ph rev="FAC 2019-03 July 12, 2019" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 15.305 by revising the third sentence of paragraph (a)(1).?>In
limited situations, a cost analysis may be appropriate to establish
reasonableness of the otherwise successful offeror's price (see <xref href="FAR-i1105936.dita#i1105936"
                                 base="i1105936"
                                 outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(c)(1)(i)(C)).<?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2017-006?></ph> When
contracting on a cost-reimbursement basis, evaluations shall include
a cost realism analysis to determine what the Government should
realistically expect to pay for the proposed effort, the offeror's
understanding of the work, and the offeror's ability to perform
the contract. Cost realism analyses may also be used on fixed-price incentive
contracts or, in exceptional cases, on other competitive fixed-price-type
contracts (see <xref href="FAR-i1106135.dita#i1106135"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.404-1</xref>(d)(3)). (See <xref href="FAR-i1077986.dita#i1077986"
                              base="i1077986"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">37.115</xref> for uncompensated
overtime evaluation.) The contracting officer shall document the
cost or price evaluation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d909e53" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Past
performance evaluation.</p>
                     <ol id="d895e51" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e63" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Past performance information is
one indicator of an offeror’s ability to perform the contract successfully.
The currency and relevance of the information, source of the information,
context of the data, and general trends in contractor’s performance
shall be considered. This comparative assessment of past performance
information is separate from the responsibility determination required
under <xref href="FAR-i1116049.dita#i1116049"
                                    base="i1116049"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  9.1</xref>.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e75" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The solicitation
shall describe the approach for evaluating past performance, including
evaluating offerors with no relevant performance history, and shall
provide offerors an opportunity to identify past or current contracts (including
Federal, State, and local government and private) for efforts similar
to the Government requirement. The solicitation shall also authorize
offerors to provide information on problems encountered on the identified
contracts and the offeror’s corrective actions. The Government shall
consider this information, as well as information obtained from
any other sources, when evaluating the offeror’s past performance.
The source selection authority shall determine the relevance of
similar past performance information.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e84" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The evaluation
should take into account past performance information regarding
predecessor companies, key personnel who have relevant experience,
or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of
the requirement when such information is relevant to the instant
acquisition.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e93" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> In the
case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance
or for whom information on past performance is not available, the
offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e102" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> The evaluation
should include the past performance of offerors in complying with
subcontracting plan goals for small disadvantaged business (SDB)
concerns (see <xref href="FAR-i1100205.dita#i1100205"
                                    base="i1100205"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.7</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d909e116" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Technical
evaluation</i>. When tradeoffs are performed (see <xref href="FAR-i1109257.dita#i1109257"
                              base="i1109257"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.101-1</xref>), the source
selection records shall include-</p>
                     <ol id="d895e120" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e132" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> An assessment
of each offeror’s ability to accomplish the technical requirements;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d909e141" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> A summary,
matrix, or quantitative ranking, along with appropriate supporting
narrative, of each technical proposal using the evaluation factors.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d909e152" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost
information.</i> Cost information may be provided to members of
the technical evaluation team in accordance with agency procedures.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d909e164" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> S<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">mall
business subcontracting evaluation.</i> Solicitations must be structured
to give offers from small business concerns the highest rating for
the evaluation factors in <xref href="FAR-i1108563.dita#i1108563"
                              base="i1108563"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.304</xref>(c)(3)(ii)
and (c)(4).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d909e181" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The source
selection authority may reject all proposals received in response
to a solicitation, if doing so is in the best interest of the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d909e190" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> For restrictions
on the use of support contractor personnel in proposal evaluation,
see <xref href="FAR-i1077654.dita#i1077654"
                        base="i1077654"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">37.203</xref>(d).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>