<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
	  <concept id="id1617MD00KGE"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">4.1402</ph> Procedures.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d285e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d287e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Agencies shall ensure that contractors comply with the reporting requirements of <xref href="FAR-i1064087.dita#i1064087"
                        base="i1064087"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-10</xref>, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards. Agencies shall review contractor reports on a quarterly basis to ensure the information is consistent with contract information. The agency is not required to address data for which the agency would not normally have supporting information, such as the compensation information required of contractors and first-tier subcontractors. However, the agency shall inform the contractor of any inconsistencies with the contract information and require that the contractor correct the report, or provide a reasonable explanation as to why it believes the information is correct. Agencies may review the reports at <xref href="http://www.fsrs.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.fsrs.gov</xref>.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d287e32" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When contracting officers report the contract action to the Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) in accordance with FAR <xref href="FAR-i1122770.dita#i1122770"
                        base="i1122770"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  4.6</xref>, certain data will then pre-populate from FPDS, to assist contractors in completing and submitting their reports. If data originating from FPDS is found by the contractor to be in error when the contractor completes the subcontract report, the contractor should notify the Government contracting officer, who is responsible for correcting the data in FPDS. Contracts reported using the generic entity identifier allowed at FAR <xref href="FAR-i1122848.dita#i1122848"
                        base="i1122848"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.605</xref>(c)(2) will interfere with the contractor’s ability to comply with this reporting requirement, because the data will not pre-populate from FPDS.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d287e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the contractor fails to comply with the reporting requirements, the contracting officer shall exercise appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the contracting officer shall make the contractor’s failure to comply with the reporting requirements a part of the contractor’s performance information under <xref href="FAR-i1074222.dita#i1074222"
                        base="i1074222"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  42.15</xref>.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d287e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            There is a reporting exception in <xref href="FAR-i1064087.dita#i1064087"
                        base="i1064087"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-10</xref>(g) for contractors and subcontractors who had gross income in the previous tax year under $300,000.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
