<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1120755"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5.203</ph> Publicizing and response time.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d333e13" class="- topic/p ">Whenever agencies are required to publicize notice of proposed contract actions under <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1120663.dita#i1120663"
                     base="i1120663"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref>
				        </ph>, they must proceed as follows:</p>
			      <ol id="d326e22" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            An agency must transmit a notice of proposed contract action to the GPE (see <xref href="FAR-i1120663.dita#i1120663"
                        base="i1120663"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref>). All publicizing and response times are calculated based on the date of publication. The publication date is the date the notice appears on the GPE. The notice must be published at least 15 days before issuance of a solicitation, or a proposed contract action the Government intends to solicit and negotiate with only one source under the authority of <xref href="FAR-i1119460.dita#i1119460"
                        base="i1119460"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">6.302</xref>, except that, for acquisitions of commercial items, the contracting officer may-</p>
					          <ol id="d326e38" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d333e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Establish a shorter period for issuance of the solicitation; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d333e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Use the combined synopsis and solicitation procedure (see <xref href="FAR-i1112649.dita#i1112649"
                              base="i1112649"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">12.603</xref>).</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e65" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer must establish a solicitation response time that will afford potential offerors a reasonable opportunity to respond to each proposed contract action, (including actions where the notice of proposed contract action and solicitation information is accessible through the GPE), in an amount estimated to be greater than $25,000, but not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold; or each contract action for the acquisition of commercial items in an amount estimated to be greater than $25,000. The contracting officer should consider the circumstances of the individual acquisition, such as the complexity, commerciality, availability, and urgency, when establishing the solicitation response time.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e74" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Except for the acquisition of commercial items (see <xref href="#i1120755"
                        base="i1120755"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.203</xref>(b)), agencies shall allow at least a 30-day response time for receipt of bids or proposals from the date of issuance of a solicitation, if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e86" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Agencies shall allow at least a 30 day response time from the date of publication of a proper notice of intent to contract for architect-engineer services or before issuance of an order under a basic ordering agreement or similar arrangement if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e95" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Agencies must allow at least a 45-day response time for receipt of bids or proposals from the date of publication of the notice required in <xref href="FAR-i1120663.dita#i1120663"
                        base="i1120663"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.201</xref> for proposed contract actions categorized as research and development if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e108" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Nothing in this subpart prohibits officers or employees of agencies from responding to requests for information.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e117" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Contracting officers may, unless they have evidence to the contrary, presume the notice was published oneday after transmission to the GPE. This presumption does not negate the mandatory waiting or response times specified in paragraphs(a) through (d) of this section. Upon learning that a particular notice has not in fact been published within the presumed timeframes, contracting officers should consider whether the date for receipt of offers can be extended or whether circumstances have become sufficiently compelling to justify proceeding with the proposed contract action under the authority of <xref href="FAR-i1120688.dita#i1120688"
                        base="i1120688"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.202</xref>(a)(2).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d333e129" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            In addition to other requirements set forth in this section, for acquisitions covered by the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement or a Free Trade Agreement (see <xref href="FAR-i1092400.dita#i1092400"
                        base="i1092400"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  25.4</xref>), the period of time between publication of the synopsis notice and receipt of offers must be no less than 40 days. However, if the acquisition falls within a general category identified in an annual forecast, the availability of which is published, the contracting officer may reduce this time period to as few as 10 days.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
