<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1118917"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">7.104</ph> General procedures.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d403e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d410e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Acquisition planning should begin as soon as the agency need is identified, preferably well in advance of the fiscal year in which contract award or order placement is necessary. In developing the plan, the planner shall form a team consisting of all those who will be responsible for significant aspects of the acquisition, such as contracting, fiscal, legal, and technical personnel. If contract performance is to be in a designated operational area or supporting a diplomatic or consular mission, the planner shall also consider inclusion of the combatant commander or chief of mission, as appropriate. The planner should review previous plans for similar acquisitions and discuss them with the key personnel involved in those acquisitions. At key dates specified in the plan or whenever significant changes occur, and no less often than annually, the planner shall review the plan and, if appropriate, revise it.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d410e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Requirements and logistics personnel should avoid issuing requirements on an urgent basis or with unrealistic delivery or performance schedules, since it generally restricts competition and increases prices. Early in the planning process, the planner should consult with requirements and logistics personnel who determine type, quality, quantity, and delivery requirements.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d410e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The planner shall coordinate with and secure the concurrence of the contracting officer in all acquisition planning. If the plan proposes using other than full and open competition when awarding a contract, the plan shall also be coordinated with the cognizant advocate for competition.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d410e44" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The planner shall coordinate the acquisition plan or strategy with the cognizant small business specialist when the strategy contemplates an acquisition meeting the thresholds in <xref href="FAR-CEHJGJDGD2.dita#CEHJGJDGD2"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">7.107-4</xref> for substantial bundling unless the contract or task order or delivery order is entirely reserved or set-aside for small business under <xref href="FAR-i1101928.dita#i1101928"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  19</xref>. The small business specialist shall notify the agency Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization or the Office of Small Business Programs if the strategy involves-</p>
					          <ol id="d403e56" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d410e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Bundling that is unnecessary or unjustified; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d410e69" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Bundled or consolidated requirements not identified as such by the agency (see <xref href="FAR-i1119141.dita#i1119141"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.107</xref>).</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d410e83" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The planner shall ensure that a COR is nominated as early as practicable in the acquisition process by the requirements official or in accordance with agency procedures. The contracting officer shall designate and authorize a COR as early as practicable after the nomination. See <xref href="FAR-i1126427.dita#i1126427"
                        base="i1126427"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">1.602-2</xref>(d).</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
