<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1049144"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.237-4</ph> Payment by Government to Contractor.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3557e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1077593.dita#i1077593"
                     base="i1077593"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">37.304</xref>(a)</ph>, insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts solely for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements whenever the contracting officer determines that the Government shall make payment to the contractor in addition to any title to property that the contractor may receive under the contract:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Payment by Government to Contractor (Apr 1984)</p>
			      <ol id="d3539e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3557e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            In ______ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">insert “full” if Alternate I is used; otherwise insert “partial”</i>] consideration of the performance of the work called for in the Schedule, the Government will pay to the Contractor ______________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">fill in amount</i>].</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3557e44" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Government shall make progress payments monthly as the work proceeds, or at more frequent intervals as determined by the Contracting Officer, on estimates approved by the Contracting Officer. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, in making progress payments the Contracting Officer shall retain 10 percent of the estimated payment until final completion and acceptance of the contract work. However, if the Contracting Officer finds that satisfactory progress was achieved during any period for which a progress payment is to be made, the Contracting Officer may authorize such payment in full, without retaining a percentage. Also, on completion and acceptance of each unit or division for which the price is stated separately, the Contracting Officer may authorize full payment for that unit or division without retaining a percentage.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3557e53" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When the work is substantially completed, the Contracting Officer shall retain an amount considered adequate for the protection of the Government and, at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, may release all or a portion of any excess amount.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3557e62" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            In further consideration of performance, the Contractor shall receive title to all property to be dismantled or demolished that is not specifically designated as being retained by the Government. The title shall vest in the Contractor immediately upon the Government’s issuing the notice of award, or if a performance bond is to be furnished after award, upon the Government’s issuance of a notice to proceed with the work. The Government shall not be responsible for the condition of, or any loss or damage to, the property. If the Contractor does not wish to remove from the site any of the property acquired, the Contracting Officer may, upon written request, grant the Contractor permission to leave the property on the premises. As a condition to the granting of this permission, the Contractor agrees to waive any right, title, claim, or interest in and to the property.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3557e71" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Upon completion and acceptance of all work and receipt of a properly executed voucher, the Government shall make final payment of the amount due the Contractor under this contract. If requested, the Contractor shall release all claims against the Government arising under this contract, other than any claims the Contractor specifically excepts, in stated amounts, from operation of this release.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
			      <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
			      <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section ">
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the contracting officer determines that the Government shall retain all material resulting from the dismantling or demolition work, delete paragraph (d) from the basic clause and renumber the remaining paragraphs.</p>
			      </section>
			      <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
