<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="id1617MD0609Q"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">23.701</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Computer” means a device that performs logical operations and processes data. Computers are composed of, at a minimum:</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d1544e23" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A central processing unit (CPU) to perform operations;</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                User input devices such as a keyboard, mouse, digitizer, or game controller; and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e45" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A computer display screen to output information. Computers include both stationary and portable units, including desktop computers, integrated desktop computers, notebook computers, thin clients, and workstations. Although computers must be capable of using input devices and computer displays, as noted in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this definition, computer systems do not need to include these devices on shipment to meet this definition. This definition does not include server computers, gaming consoles, mobile telephones, portable hand-held calculators, portable digital assistants (PDAs), MP3 players, or any other mobile computing device with displays less than 4 inches, measured diagonally.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p id="d1558e51" class="- topic/p ">“Computer display” means a display screen and its associated electronics encased in a single housing or within the computer housing (e.g., notebook or integrated desktop computer) that is capable of displaying output information from a computer via one or more inputs such as a VGA, DVI, USB, DisplayPort, and/or IEEE 1394-2008™, Standard for High Performance Serial Bus. Examples of computer display technologies are the cathode-ray tube (CRT) and liquid crystal display (LCD).</p>
			      <p id="d1558e54" class="- topic/p ">“Desktop computer” means a computer where the main unit is intended to be located in a permanent location, often on a desk or on the floor. Desktops are not designed for portability and utilize an external computer display, keyboard, and mouse. Desktops are designed for a broad range of home and office applications.</p>
			      <p id="d1558e57" class="- topic/p ">“Electronic products” means products that are dependent on electric currents or electromagnetic fields in order to work properly.</p>
			      <p id="d1558e60" class="- topic/p ">“Imaging equipment” means the following products:</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d1544e65" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e76" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Copier</i>–A commercially available imaging product with a sole function of the production of hard copy duplicates from graphic hard-copy originals. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as copiers or upgradeable digital copiers (UDCs).</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e88" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Digital duplicator</i>–A commercially available imaging product that is sold in the market as a fully automated duplicator system through the method of stencil duplicating with digital reproduction functionality. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as digital duplicators.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e100" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Facsimile machine</i> (fax machine)–A commercially available imaging product whose primary functions are scanning hard-copy originals for electronic transmission to remote units and receiving similar electronic transmissions to produce hard-copy output. Electronic transmission is primarily over a public telephone system but also may be via computer network or the Internet. The product also may be capable of producing hard copy duplicates. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as fax machines.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e112" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Mailing machine</i>–A commercially available imaging product that serves to print postage onto mail pieces. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as mailing machines.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e124" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Multifunction device (MFD)</i>–A commercially available imaging product, which is a physically integrated device or a combination of functionally integrated components, that performs two or more of the core functions of copying, printing, scanning, or faxing. The copy functionality as addressed in this definition is considered to be distinct from single-sheet convenience copying offered by fax machines. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as MFDs or multifunction products.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e137" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Printer</i>–A commercially available imaging product that serves as a hard-copy output device and is capable of receiving information from single-user or networked computers, or other input devices (e.g., digital cameras). The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as printers, including printers that can be upgraded into MFDs in the field.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e149" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                
								                <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Scanner</i>–A commercially available imaging product that functions as an electro-optical device for converting information into electronic images that can be stored, edited, converted, or transmitted, primarily in a personal computing environment. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as scanners.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p id="d1558e151" class="- topic/p ">“Integrated desktop computer” means a desktop system in which the computer and computer display function as a single unit that receives its AC power through a single cable. Integrated desktop computers come in one of two possible forms:</p>
			      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d1544e156" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e173" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A system where the computer display and computer are physically combined into a single unit; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1558e182" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A system packaged as a single system where the computer display is separate but is connected to the main chassis by a DC power cord and both the computer and computer display are powered from a single power supply. As a subset of desktop computers, integrated desktop computers are typically designed to provide similar functionality as desktop systems.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p id="d1558e242" class="- topic/p ">“Notebook computer” means a computer designed specifically for portability and to be operated for extended periods of time either with or without a direct connection to an AC power source. Notebooks must utilize an integrated computer display and be capable of operation off of an integrated battery or other portable power source. In addition, most notebooks use an external power supply and have an integrated keyboard and pointing device. Notebook computers are typically designed to provide similar functionality to desktops, including operation of software similar in functionality to that used in desktops. Docking stations are considered accessories for notebook computers, not notebook computers. Tablet PCs, which may use touch-sensitive screens along with, or instead of, other input devices, are considered notebook computers.</p>
			      <p id="id192BB0EB0OF" class="- topic/p ">“Personal computer product” means a computer, computer display, desktop computer, integrated desktop computer, or notebook computer.</p>
			      <p id="id192BB0EN0WB" class="- topic/p ">“Television, or TV”, means a commercially available electronic product designed primarily for the reception and display of audiovisual signals received from terrestrial, cable, satellite, Internet Protocol TV (IPTV), or other digital or analog sources. A TV consists of a tuner/receiver and a display encased in a single enclosure. The product usually relies upon a cathode-ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display (LCD), plasma display, or other display technology. Televisions with computer capability (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, computer input port) may be considered to be a TV as long as they are marketed and sold to consumers primarily as televisions.</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
