<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1100931"
            rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.507</ph> 
         <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>Solicitation provisions
and contract clauses.<?FM MARKER [Why] Redesignate section 19.508 as section 19.507 and revise paragraphs (c) through (f) and add paragraphs (g) and (h).?></title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1170e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1191e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> [Reserved]</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1191e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> [Reserved]</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1191e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The contracting
officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small
Business Set-Aside, in solicitations and contracts involving total
small business set-asides. This includes multiple-award contracts
when orders may be set aside for any of the small business concerns
identified in 19.000(a)(3), as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F).
Use the clause at 52.219-6 with its Alternate I when including FPI
in the competition in accordance with 19.502-7.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1191e69" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The contracting
officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small
Business Set-Aside, in solicitations and contracts involving partial
small business set-asides. This includes part or parts of multiple-award
contracts, including those described in 38.101. Use the clause at
52.219-7 with its Alternate I when including FPI in the competition
in accordance with 19.502-7.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1191e97" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> The contracting
officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting,
in solicitations and contracts for supplies, services, and construction,
if any portion of the requirement is to be set aside for small business
and the contract amount is expected to exceed $150,000. This includes
multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for small
business concerns, as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F),
and when orders may be issued directly to a small business concern
as described in 19.504(c)(1)(ii). For contracts that are set aside,
the contracting officer shall indicate in paragraph (d) of the clause
whether compliance with the limitations on subcontracting is required
at the contract or order level.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1191e116" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203D80N705Z" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>The contracting officer shall insert
the clause at 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders, in all solicitations
for multiple-award contracts under which orders may be set aside
for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3),
and all contracts awarded from such solicitations.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203D80O07Y4" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>The contracting officer shall insert
the clause at 52.219-13 with its Alternate I in all full and open
solicitations and contracts for multiple-award contracts under which
orders will be set aside for any of the small business concerns
identified in 19.000(a)(3) if the conditions in 19.502-2 are met
at the time of order set-aside, and the specific program eligibility
requirements, as applicable, are also then met.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203D80O0MHS" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203D80O0UUI" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>The contracting officer shall insert the
provision at 52.219-31, Notice of Small Business Reserve, in solicitations
for multiple-award contracts that have reserves.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203D80O0YYK" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>The contracting officer shall insert
the clause at 52.219-32 Orders Issued Directly Under Small Business
Reserves, in solicitations and the resulting multiple-award contracts
that have reserves.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203D80OJ0HT" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>The contracting officer shall insert
the clause at 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule, in solicitations
and contracts when the item being acquired has been assigned a manufacturing
or supply NAICS code, and any portion of the requirement is set-aside
for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3)
including multiple-award contracts that provide for the set-aside
of orders to small business concerns or for orders issued directly
to one small business concern in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii),
or is awarded on a sole source basis in accordance with subpart
19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15. The clause shall not be used when
the Small Business Administration has determined that there are
no small business manufacturers of the product or end items and
has waived the nonmanufacturer rule (see 19.505(c)(4)).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>