<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1101807"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title rev="FAC 2019-06 October 10, 2019" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.101</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart—</p>
         <p id="id199RD9002QT"
            rev="FAC 2019-06 October 10, 2019"
            class="- topic/p "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2019-006?>“Affiliates.”
Business concerns are affiliates of each other if, directly or indirectly,
either one controls or has the power to control the other, or another
concern controls or has the power to control both. In determining
whether affiliation exists, consideration is given to all appropriate
factors including common ownership, common management, and contractual
relationships; provided, that restraints imposed by a franchise
agreement are not considered in determining whether the franchisor
controls or has the power to control the franchisee, if the franchisee
has the right to profit from its effort, commensurate with ownership, and
bears the risk of loss or failure. Any business entity may be found
to be an affiliate, whether or not it is organized for profit or
located in the United States or its outlying areas.<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.101 by revising the section heading and the defined term “Affiliates”.?></p>
         <p id="d1148e327" class="- topic/p ">“Annual receipts.”</p>
         <ol id="d1127e19" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <ol id="d1127e334" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1148e32" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Annual receipts of a concern which
has been in business for 3 or more complete fiscal years means the
annual average gross revenue of the concern taken for the last 3
fiscal years. For the purpose of this definition, gross revenue of
the concern includes revenues from sales of products and services,
interest, rents, fees, commissions and/or whatever other sources
derived, but less returns and allowances, sales of fixed assets,
interaffiliate transactions between a concern and its domestic and
foreign affiliates, and taxes collected for remittance (and if due,
remitted) to a third party. Such revenues shall be measured as entered
on the regular books of account of the concern whether on a cash,
accrual, or other basis of accounting acceptable to the U.S. Treasury
Department for the purpose of supporting Federal income tax returns,
except when a change in accounting method from cash to accrual or
accrual to cash has taken place during such 3-year period, or when
the completed contract method has been used.</p>
                     <ol id="d1127e344" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1148e42" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> In any
case of change in accounting method from cash to accrual or accrual
to cash, revenues for such 3-year period shall, prior to the calculation
of the annual average, be restated to the accrual method. In any
case, where the completed contract method has been used to account
for revenues in such 3-year period, revenues must be restated on
an accrual basis using the percentage of completion method.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1148e51" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> In the
case of a concern which does not keep regular books of accounts,
but which is subject to U.S. Federal income taxation, “annual receipts”
shall be measured as reported, or to be reported to the U.S. Treasury
Department, Internal Revenue Service, for Federal income tax purposes,
except that any return based on a change in accounting method or
on the completed contract method of accounting must be restated
as provided for in the preceding paragraphs.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1148e62" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Annual
receipts of a concern that has been in business for less than 3
complete fiscal years means its total receipts for the period it
has been in business, divided by the number of weeks including fractions
of a week that it has been in business, and multiplied by 52. In
calculating total receipts, the definitions and adjustments related
to a change of accounting method and the completed contract method
of paragraph (1) of this definition, are applicable.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p id="d1148e374" class="- topic/p ">“Number of employees” is a measure of the average
employment of a business concern and means its average employment, including
the employees of its domestic and foreign affiliates, based on the
number of persons employed on a full-time, part-time, temporary,
or other basis during each of the pay periods of the preceding 12
months. If a business has not been in existence for 12 months, “number
of employees” means the average employment of such concern and its
affiliates during the period that such concern has been in existence
based on the number of persons employed during each of the pay periods
of the period that such concern has been in business. If a business
has acquired an affiliate during the applicable 12-month period,
it is necessary, in computing the applicant’s number of employees,
to include the affiliate’s number of employees during the entire
period, rather than only its employees during the period in which
it has been an affiliate. The employees of a former affiliate are
not included, even if such concern had been an affiliate during
a portion of the period.</p>
         <msgblock props="Citation" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre sw-d/msgblock ">[51 FR 2650, Jan. 17, 1986, as amended at 64 FR 32743, June 17, 1999; 64 FR 72444, Dec. 27, 1999; 65 FR 46055, July 26, 2000; 66 FR 2129, Jan. 10, 2001; 68 FR 28081, May 22, 2003; 75 FR 77729, Dec. 13, 2010]</msgblock>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>