<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
	  <concept id="i1048135"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.243-1</ph> Changes-Fixed-Price.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3601e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1073940.dita#i1073940"
                     base="i1073940"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">43.205</xref>(a)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause. The 30-day period may be varied according to agency procedures.</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Changes-Fixed Price (Aug 1987)</p>
			      <ol id="d3584e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3601e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following:</p>
					          <ol id="d3584e35" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3601e39" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Drawings, designs, or specifications when the supplies to be furnished are to be specially manufactured for the Government in accordance with the drawings, designs, or specifications.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3601e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Method of shipment or packing.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3601e57" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Place of delivery.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3601e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3601e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3601e86" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the Contractor’s proposal includes the cost of property made obsolete or excess by the change, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of the disposition of the property.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3601e95" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
			      <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section ">
				<?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the requirement is for services, other than architect-engineer or other professional services, and no supplies are to be furnished, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) Description of services to be performed.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) Time of performance (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>hours of the day, days of the week, etc.).</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(3) Place of performance of the services.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the requirement is for services (other than architect-engineer services, transportation, or research and development) and supplies are to be furnished, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) Description of services to be performed.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) Time of performance (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i>hours of the day, days of the week, etc.).</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(3) Place of performance of the services.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(4) Drawings, designs, or specifications when the supplies to be furnished are to be specially manufactured for the Government, in accordance with the drawings, designs, or specifications.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(5) Method of shipment or packing of supplies.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(6) Place of delivery.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984).</i>If the requirement is for architect-engineer or other professional services, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause and add the following paragraph (f):</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in the services to be performed.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p "/>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(f) No services for which an additional cost or fee will be charged by the Contractor shall be furnished without the prior written authorization of the Contracting Officer.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate IV (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984)</i>. If the requirement is for transportation services, substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) Specifications.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) Work or services.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(3) Place of origin.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(4) Place of delivery.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(5) Tonnage to be shipped.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(6) Amount of Government-furnished property.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate V (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Apr</i>1984).</i> If the requirement is for research and development and it is desired to include the clause, substitute the following paragraphs(a)(1) and (a)(3) and paragraph (b) for paragraphs(a)(1) and (a)(3) and paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) ***</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) Drawings, designs, or specifications.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p "/>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(3) Place of inspection, delivery, or acceptance.</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or time required for, performing this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in-</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) The contract price, the time of performance, or both; and</p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) Other affected terms of the contract, and shall modify the contract accordingly.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
			      </section>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
