<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="i1067587"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">49.603-7</ph> No-cost settlement agreement-partial termination.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p outputclass="BlockIndent" class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert the following in Block 14 of <ph class="- topic/ph ">
						            <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/public-voucher-purchases-and-services-other-personal"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 30</xref>
					          </ph> if a no-cost settlement agreement, under partial termination, is to executed.</i>]</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) This supplemental agreement modifies the contract to reflect a no-cost settlement agreement with respect to the Notice of Termination dated ____.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The parties agree as follows:</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The terminated portion of the contract is as follows: [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Specify-</i>
			      </p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Line item numbers,</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) descriptions,</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) quantity terminated,</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) unit and total price of terminated items, and</p>
			      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">any other explanation necessary to avoid uncertainty or misunderstanding</i>.]</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The Contractor unconditionally waives any charges against the Government arising under the terminated portion of the contract or by reason of its termination, including, without limitation, all obligations of the Government to make further payments or to carry out any further undertakings under the terminated portion of the contract. The Government acknowledges that the Contractor has no obligation to perform further work or services or to make further deliveries under the terminated portion of the contract. Nothing in this paragraph affects any other covenants, terms, or conditions of the contract. Under the terminated portion of the contract, the following rights and liabilities of the parties are reserved: [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">List reserved or excepted rights and liabilities. See <xref href="FAR-i1068860.dita#i1068860"
                     base="i1068860"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.109-2</xref> and <xref href="FAR-i1067398.dita#i1067398"
                     base="i1067398"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.603-1</xref>(b)(7).</i>]</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">(End of agreement)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
