<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1045071"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.249-14</ph> Excusable Delays.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3738e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1067927.dita#i1067927"
                     base="i1067927"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">49.505</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts for supplies, services, construction, and research and development on a fee basis whenever a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated. Also insert the clause in time-and-material contracts, and labor-hour contracts. When used in construction contracts, substitute the words “completion time” for “delivery schedule” in the last sentence of the clause.</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Excusable Delays (Apr 1984)</p>
			      <ol id="d3721e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3738e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Except for defaults of subcontractors at any tier, the Contractor shall not be in default because of any failure to perform this contract under its terms if the failure arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of these causes are (1)acts of God or of the public enemy, (2)acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, (3)fires, (4)floods, (5)epidemics, (6)quarantine restrictions, (7)strikes, (8)freight embargoes, and (9)unusually severe weather. In each instance, the failure to perform must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. “Default” includes failure to make progress in the work so as to endanger performance.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3738e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the failure to perform is caused by the failure of a subcontractor at any tier to perform or make progress, and if the cause of the failure was beyond the control of both the Contractor and subcontractor, and without the fault or negligence of either, the Contractor shall not be deemed to be in default,- unless-</p>
					          <ol id="d3721e44" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3738e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The subcontracted supplies or services were obtainable from other sources;</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3738e57" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The Contracting Officer ordered the Contractor in writing to purchase these supplies or services from the other source; and</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3738e66" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The Contractor failed to comply reasonably with this order.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3738e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Upon request of the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall ascertain the facts and extent of the failure. If the Contracting Officer determines that any failure to perform results from one or more of the causes above, the delivery schedule shall be revised, subject to the rights of the Government under the termination clause of this contract.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
