<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1072818"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">45.602-3</ph> Screening.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">The
screening period begins upon the plant clearance officer’s acceptance
of an inventory disposal schedule. The plant clearance officer shall
determine whether standard or special screening is appropriate and
initiate screening actions.</p>
         <ol id="d2632e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2646e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Standard
screening</i>. The standard screening period is 46 days.</p>
               <ol id="d2632e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">First
through twentieth day-Screening by the contracting agency</i>. The
contracting agency has 20 days to screen property reported on the
inventory disposal schedule for: other use within the agency; transfer
of educationally useful equipment to other Federal agencies that
have expressed a need for the property; and transfer of educationally
useful equipment to schools and nonprofit organizations if a Federal
agency has not expressed a need for the property. Excess personal
property, meeting the conditions of <xref href="FAR-i1072848.dita#i1072848"
                              base="i1072848"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">45.603</xref>,
may be abandoned, destroyed, or donated to public bodies. No later
than the 21st day, the plant clearance officer shall submit four
copies of the revised schedules and <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/report-excess-personal-property"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">Standard Form (SF) 120</xref>,
Report of Excess Personal Property, or an electronic equivalent
to GSA (see 41 CFR 102-36.215).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin"
                      otherprops="123Runin"
                      outputclass="H6_123Runin"
                      class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Twenty-first
through forty-sixth day (21 days concurrent screening plus 5 days
donation processing).-</p>
                     <ol id="d2632e57" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e61" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Screening by other Federal agencies</i>.
GSA will normally honor requests for transfers of property on a
first-come-first-served basis through the 41st day. When a request
is honored, the GSA regional office shall promptly transmit to the
plant clearance officer an approved transfer order that includes
shipping instructions.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e73" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Screening for possible donation</i>.
Screening for donation is also completed during days 21 through
41. Property is not available for allocation to donees until after
the completion of screening. Days 42 through 46 are reserved for
GSA to make such allocation.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e87" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Screening
period transfer request</i>. If an agency receives an intra-agency
transfer request during the screening periods described in paragraph
(a)(2) of this subsection, the plant clearance officer shall request
GSA approval to withdraw the item from the inventory disposal schedule.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin"
                otherprops="abcRunin"
                outputclass="H5_abcRunin"
                class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2646e101" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Special
screening requirements.-</p>
               <ol id="d2632e107" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e111" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special
tooling and special test equipment without commercial components</i>. Agencies
shall follow the procedures in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
This property owned by the Department of Defense (DoD) or the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) may be screened for
reutilization only within these agencies.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin"
                      otherprops="123Runin"
                      outputclass="H6_123Runin"
                      class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e123" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Special
test equipment with commercial components.-</p>
                     <ol id="d2632e129" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e133" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Agencies
shall complete the screening required by paragraph (a) of this subsection.
If an agency has no further need for the property and the contractor
has not expressed an interest in using or acquiring the property
by annotating the inventory disposal schedule, the plant clearance
officer shall forward the inventory disposal schedule to the GSA
regional office that serves the region in which the property is
located.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e142" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               If the
contractor has expressed an interest in using the property on another
Government contract, the plant clearance officer shall contact the
contracting officer for that contract. If the contracting officer
concurs with the proposed use, the contracting officer for the contract
under which the property is accountable shall transfer the property’s
accountability to that contract. If the contracting officer does
not concur with the proposed use, the plant clearance officer shall
deny the contractor’s request and shall continue the screening process.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e151" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               If the
property is contractor-acquired or produced, and the contractor
or subcontractor has expressed an interest in acquiring the property,
and no other party expresses an interest during agency or GSA screening,
the property may be sold to the contractor or subcontractor at acquisition
cost.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e162" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Printing
equipment</i>. Agencies shall report all excess printing equipment
to the Public Printer, <ph rev="FAC 2019-02 March 27, 2019" class="- topic/ph ">Government <?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 45.602-3 by removing from paragraph (b)(3) “Government Printing Office” and adding “Government Publishing Office” in its place.?>Publishing <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] Technical Amendments?>Office,</ph> 732
North Capitol Street, NW, Washington, DC 20401, after screening
within the agency (see <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">44 U.S.C. 312</xref>).
If the Public Printer does not express a need for the equipment
within 21 days, the agency shall submit the report to GSA for further
use and donation screening as described in paragraph (a) of this
subsection.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e184" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Non-nuclear
hazardous materials, hazardous wastes, and classified items</i>.
These items shall be screened in accordance with agency procedures.
Report non-nuclear hazardous materials to GSA if the agency has
no requirement for them.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2646e196" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Nuclear
materials</i>. The possession, use, and transfer of certain nuclear
materials are subject to the regulatory controls of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC). Contracting activities shall screen
excess nuclear materials in the following categories:</p>
                     <ol id="d2632e198" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e209" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">By-product material</i>. Any radioactive
material (except special nuclear material) yielded in or made radioactive by
exposure to the radiation incident to producing or using special
nuclear material.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e221" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Source material</i>. Uranium or
thorium, or any combination thereof, in any physical or chemical
form; or ores that contain by weight one-twentieth of 1 percent
(0.05 percent) or more of uranium, thorium, or any combination thereof.
Source material does not include special nuclear material.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li otherprops="i_ii_iii" outputclass="H7_i_ii_iii" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d2646e233" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special nuclear material</i>. Plutonium,
Uranium 233, Uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope
235, any other material that the NRC determines to be special nuclear
material (but not including source material); or any material artificially
enriched by any nuclear material.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
