<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
	  <concept id="i1053207"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.223-13</ph> Acquisition of EPEAT®–Registered Imaging Equipment.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3363e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1094423.dita#i1094423"
                     base="i1094423"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">23.705</xref>(b)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Acquisition of EPEAT®–Registered Imaging Equipment (Jun 2014)</p>
			      <ol id="d3345e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3363e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Definitions. As used in this clause-</p>
					          <p id="d3363e35" class="- topic/p ">“Imaging equipment” means the following products:</p>
					          <ol id="d3345e44" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Copier-A commercially available imaging product with a sole function of the production of hard copy duplicates from graphic hard-copy originals. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as copiers or upgradeable digital copiers (UDCs).</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e51" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Digital duplicator-A commercially available imaging product that is sold in the market as a fully automated duplicator system through the method of stencil duplicating with digital reproduction functionality. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as digital duplicators.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Facsimile machine (fax machine)-A commercially available imaging product whose primary functions are scanning hard-copy originals for electronic transmission to remote units and receiving similar electronic transmissions to produce hard-copy output. Electronic transmission is primarily over a public telephone system but also may be via computer network or the Internet. The product also may be capable of producing hard copy duplicates. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as fax machines.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e69" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Mailing machine-A commercially available imaging product that serves to print postage onto mail pieces. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as mailing machines.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e78" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Multifunction device (MFD)-A commercially available imaging product, which is a physically integrated device or a combination of functionally integrated components, that performs two or more of the core functions of copying, printing, scanning, or faxing. The copy functionality as addressed in this definition is considered to be distinct from single-sheet convenience copying offered by fax machines. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as MFDs or multifunction products.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e88" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Printer-A commercially available imaging product that serves as a hard-copy output device and is capable of receiving information from single-user or networked computers, or other input devices (e.g., digital cameras). The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as printers, including printers that can be upgraded into MFDs in the field.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d3363e97" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Scanner-A commercially available imaging product that functions as an electro-optical device for converting information into electronic images that can be stored, edited, converted, or transmitted, primarily in a personal computing environment. The unit is capable of being powered from a wall outlet or from a data or network connection. This definition is intended to cover products that are marketed as scanners.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3363e108" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility, only imaging equipment that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award, was EPEAT® bronze-registered or higher.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3363e117" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            For information about EPEAT®, see <xref href="http://www.epa.gov/epeat/"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.epa.gov/epeat/</xref>.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
			      <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section ">
				<?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
				        <p class="- topic/p ">Alternate I <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Oct</i> 2015). As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
							              <xref href="FAR-i1094423.dita#i1094423"
                           base="i1094423"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">23.705</xref>(c)(2)</ph>, substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</i>
				        </p>
				        <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for contractor use at a Federally controlled facility, only imaging equipment that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award, was EPEAT® silver-registered or gold-registered.</p>
				        <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
			      </section>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
