<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1089352"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">27.405-3</ph> Commercial computer software.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d1763e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1777e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When contracting other than from GSA’s Multiple Award Schedule contracts for the acquisition of commercial computer software, no specific contract clause prescribed in this subpart need be used, but the contract shall specifically address the Government’s rights to use, disclose, modify, distribute, and reproduce the software. Section <xref href="FAR-i1113592.dita#i1113592"
                        base="i1113592"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">12.212</xref> sets forth the guidance for the acquisition of commercial computer software and states that commercial computer software or commercial computer software documentation shall be acquired under licenses customarily provided to the public to the extent the license is consistent with Federal law and otherwise satisfies the Government’s needs. The clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052720.dita#i1052720"
                        base="i1052720"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-19</xref>, Commercial Computer Software License, may be used when there is any confusion as to whether the Government’s needs are satisfied or whether a customary commercial license is consistent with Federal law. Additional or lesser rights may be negotiated using the guidance concerning restricted rights as set forth in <xref href="FAR-i1089187.dita#i1089187"
                        base="i1089187"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">27.404-2</xref>(d), or the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052720.dita#i1052720"
                        base="i1052720"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-19</xref>. If greater rights than the minimum rights identified in the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052720.dita#i1052720"
                        base="i1052720"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-19</xref> are needed, or lesser rights are to be acquired, they shall be negotiated and set forth in the contract. This includes any additions to, or limitations on, the rights set forth in paragraph (b) of the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052720.dita#i1052720"
                        base="i1052720"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-19</xref> when used. Examples of greater rights may be those necessary for networking purposes or use of the software from remote terminals communicating with a host computer where the software is located. If the computer software is to be acquired with unlimited rights, the contract shall also so state. In addition, the contract shall adequately describe the computer programs and/or databases, the media on which it is recorded, and all the necessary documentation.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1777e45" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the contract incorporates, makes reference to, or uses a vendor’s standard commercial lease, license, or purchase agreement, the contracting officer shall ensure that the agreement is consistent with paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection. The contracting officer should exercise caution in accepting a vendor’s terms and conditions, since they may be directed to commercial sales and may not be appropriate for Government contracts. Any inconsistencies in a vendor’s standard commercial agreement shall be addressed in the contract and the contract terms shall take precedence over the vendor’s standard commercial agreement. If the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052720.dita#i1052720"
                        base="i1052720"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-19</xref> is used, inconsistencies in the vendor’s standard commercial agreement regarding the Government’s right to use, reproduce or disclose the computer software are reconciled by that clause.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1777e57" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If a prime contractor under a contract containing the clause at <xref href="FAR-i1052520.dita#i1052520"
                        base="i1052520"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.227-14</xref>, Rights in Data-General, with paragraph (g)(4) (Alternate III) in the clause, acquires restricted computer software from a subcontractor (at any tier) as a separate acquisition for delivery to or for use on behalf of the Government, the contracting officer may approve any additions to, or limitations on the restricted rights in the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(4) in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of the contract.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
