<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1091374"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">25.601</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Domestic construction material” means the following:</p>
			      <ol id="d1641e19" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d1641e23" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1655e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                An unmanufactured construction material mined or produced in the United States. (The Buy American statute applies.)</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1655e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                A manufactured construction material that is manufactured in the United States and, if the construction material consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel, the iron or steel was produced in the United States. (Section 1605 of the Recovery Act applies.)</p>
							              <p id="d1655e42" class="- topic/p ">“Foreign construction material” means a construction material other than a domestic construction material.</p>
							              <p id="d1655e45" class="- topic/p ">“Manufactured construction material” means any construction material that is not unmanufactured construction material.</p>
							              <p id="d1655e48" class="- topic/p ">“Public building or public work” means a building or work, the construction, prosecution, completion, or repair of which is carried on directly or indirectly by authority of, or with funds of, a Federal agency to serve the interest of the general public regardless of whether title thereof is in a Federal agency (see <xref href="FAR-i1097654.dita#i1097654"
                              base="i1097654"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.401</xref>). These buildings and works may include, without limitation, bridges, dams, plants, highways, parkways, streets, subways, tunnels, sewers, mains, power lines, pumping stations, heavy generators, railways, airports, terminals, docks, piers, wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys, jetties, breakwaters, levees, and canals, and the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of such buildings and works.</p>
							              <p id="d1655e54" class="- topic/p ">“Recovery Act designated country” means a World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement country, a Free Trade Agreement country, or a least developed country.</p>
							              <p id="d1655e58" class="- topic/p ">“Steel” means an alloy that includes at least 50 percent iron, between .02 and 2 percent carbon, and may include other elements.</p>
							              <p id="d1655e61" class="- topic/p ">“Unmanufactured construction material” means raw material brought to the construction site for incorporation into the building or work that has not been-</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
					          <ol id="d1641e66" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1655e70" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Processed into a specific form and shape; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1655e79" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Combined with other raw material to create a material that has different properties than the properties of the individual raw materials.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
