<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="id1617MD00IMD"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">3.907-1</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this section-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.907-1" xtrc="d155e18">Board</i> means the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board established by Section 1521 of the Recovery Act.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.907-1" xtrc="d155e24">Covered funds</i> means any contract payment, grant payment, or other payment received by a contractor if-<ol id="d156e22" class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <ol id="d156e26" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d158e22" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Federal Government provides any portion of the money or property that is provided, requested, or demanded; and</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d158e27" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> At least some of the funds are appropriated or otherwise made available by the Recovery Act.</p>
                        <p id="d158e31" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.907-1" xtrc="d155e52">Covered information</i> means information that the employee reasonably believes is evidence of gross mismanagement of the contract or subcontract related to covered funds, gross waste of covered funds, a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety related to the implementation or use of covered funds, an abuse of authority related to the implementation or use of covered funds, or a violation of law, rule, or regulation related to an agency contract (including the competition for or negotiation of a contract) awarded or issued relating to covered funds.</p>
                        <p id="d158e35" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.907-1" xtrc="d155e58">Inspector General</i> means an Inspector General appointed under the Inspector General Act of 1978. In the Department of Defense that is the DoD Inspector General. In the case of an executive agency that does not have an Inspector General, the duties shall be performed by an official designated by the head of the executive agency.</p>
                        <p id="d158e39" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_3.907-1" xtrc="d155e64">Non-Federal employer,</i> as used in this section, means any employer that receives Recovery Act funds, including a contractor, subcontractor, or other recipient of funds pursuant to a contract or other agreement awarded and administered in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
