<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1112620"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">12.602</ph> Streamlined evaluation of offers.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d716e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d730e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When evaluation factors are used, the contracting officer may insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at <xref href="FAR-i1060530.dita#i1060530"
                        base="i1060530"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-2</xref>, Evaluation-Commercial Items, in solicitations for commercial items or comply with the procedures in <xref href="FAR-i1112289.dita#i1112289"
                        base="i1112289"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13.106</xref> if the acquisition is being made using simplified acquisition procedures. When the provision at <xref href="FAR-i1060530.dita#i1060530"
                        base="i1060530"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-2</xref> is used, paragraph (a) of the provision shall be tailored to the specific acquisition to describe the evaluation factors and relative importance of those factors. However, when using the simplified acquisition procedures in <xref href="FAR-i1112458.dita#i1112458"
                        base="i1112458"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  13</xref>, contracting officers are not required to describe the relative importance of evaluation factors.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d730e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Offers shall be evaluated in accordance with the criteria contained in the solicitation. For many commercial items, the criteria need not be more detailed than technical (capability of the item offered to meet the agency need), price and past performance. Technical capability may be evaluated by how well the proposed products meet the Government requirement instead of predetermined subfactors. Solicitations for commercial items do not have to contain subfactors for technical capability when the solicitation adequately describes the item’s intended use. A technical evaluation would normally include examination of such things as product literature, product samples (if requested), technical features and warranty provisions. Past performance shall be evaluated in accordance with the procedures in <xref href="FAR-i1112289.dita#i1112289"
                        base="i1112289"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13.106</xref> or <xref href="FAR-i1108536.dita#i1108536"
                        base="i1108536"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  15.3</xref>, as applicable. The contracting officer shall ensure the instructions provided in the provision at <xref href="FAR-i52_212-1.dita#i52_212-1"
                        base="i1060447"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-1</xref>, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Items, and the evaluation criteria provided in the provision at <xref href="FAR-i1060530.dita#i1060530"
                        base="i1060530"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-2</xref>, Evaluation-Commercial Items, are in agreement.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d730e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Select the offer that is most advantageous to the Government based on the factors contained in the solicitation. Fully document the rationale for selection of the successful offeror including discussion of any trade-offs considered.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
