<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1099561"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.1303</ph> Status as a HUBZone
small business concern.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1232e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1253e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                   Status as a HUBZone small business
concern is determined by the Small Business Administration (SBA)
in accordance with 13 CFR Part126.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1253e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                   If the
SBA determines that a concern is a HUBZone small business concern,
it will issue a certification to that effect and will add the concern
to the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns at <xref href="http://dsbs.sba.gov/dsbs/search/dsp_searchhubzone.cfm"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://dsbs.sba.gov/dsbs/search/dsp_searchhubzone.cfm</xref>.
Only firms on the list are HUBZone small business concerns, eligible
for HUBZone preferences. HUBZone preferences apply without regard
to the place of performance. Information on HUBZone small business
concerns can also be obtained at <xref href="http://www.sba.gov/hubzone"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.sba.gov/hubzone</xref> or by writing
to the Director for the HUBZone Program (Director/HUB) at U.S. Small
Business Administration, 409 3 rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416
or at hubzone@sba.gov.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1253e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                   A joint
venture may be considered a HUBZone small business concern if it
meets the criteria in <ph class="- topic/ph ">13
CFR 121.103(h).</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1253e55" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                   To be eligible
for a HUBZone contract under this section, a HUBZone small business
concern must be a HUBZone small business concern both at the time
of its initial offer and at the time of contract award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1253e64" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
                   A HUBZone
small business concern may submit an offer for supplies as a nonmanufacturer
if it meets the requirements of the nonmanufacturer rule set forth
at 13 CFR 121.406(b)(1) and if the small business manufacturer providing
the end item is also a HUBZone small business concern.</p>
               <ol id="d1232e68" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1253e74" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                         There
are no waivers to the nonmanufacturer rule for HUBZone contracts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1253e83" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                         For HUBZone
contracts at or below $25,000 in total value, a HUBZone small business
concern may supply the end item of any manufacturer, including a
large business, so long as the product acquired is manufactured
or produced in the United States.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <msgblock props="Citation" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre sw-d/msgblock ">[63 FR 70272, Dec. 18, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 51832, Sept. 24, 1999; 75 FR 77730, Dec. 13, 2010]</msgblock>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
