<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1109077"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">15.207</ph> Handling proposals and information.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d885e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d899e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Upon receipt at the location specified in the solicitation, proposals and information received in response to a request for information (RFI) shall be marked with the date and time of receipt and shall be transmitted to the designated officials.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d899e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Proposals shall be safeguarded from unauthorized disclosure throughout the source selection process. (See <xref href="FAR-i1124683.dita#i1124683"
                        base="i1124683"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">3.104</xref> regarding the disclosure of source selection information (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C.chapter 21</xref>, Restrictions on Obtaining and Disclosing Certain Information). Information received in response to an RFI shall be safeguarded adequately from unauthorized disclosure.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d899e41" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If any portion of a proposal received by the contracting officer electronically or by facsimile is unreadable, the contracting officer immediately shall notify the offeror and permit the offeror to resubmit the unreadable portion of the proposal. The method and time for resubmission shall be prescribed by the contracting officer after consultation with the offeror, and documented in the file. The resubmission shall be considered as if it were received at the date and time of the original unreadable submission for the purpose of determining timeliness under <xref href="FAR-i1109089.dita#i1109089"
                        base="i1109089"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.208</xref>(a), provided the offeror complies with the time and format requirements for resubmission prescribed by the contracting officer.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
