<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
	  <concept id="i1123796"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">3.901</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Authorized official of an agency” means an officer or employee responsible for contracting, program management, audit, inspection, investigation, or enforcement of any law or regulation relating to Government procurement or the subject matter of the contract.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Authorized official of the Department of Justice” means any person responsible for the investigation, enforcement, or prosecution of any law or regulation.</p>
			      <p id="d151e22" class="- topic/p ">“Inspector General” means an Inspector General appointed under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended. In the Department of Defense that is the <ph class="- topic/ph ">DoD Inspector General</ph>. In the case of an executive agency that does not have an Inspector General, the duties shall be performed by an official designated by the head of the executive agency.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Internal confidentiality agreement or statement” means a confidentiality agreement or any other written statement that the contractor requires any of its employees or subcontractors to sign regarding nondisclosure of contractor information, except that it does not include confidentiality agreements arising out of civil litigation or confidentiality agreements that contractor employees or subcontractors sign at the behest of a Federal agency.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Subcontract” means any contract as defined in <xref href="FAR-i1125357.dita#i1125357"
                  outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                  class="- topic/xref ">subpart  2.1</xref> entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or a subcontract. It includes but is not limited to purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Subcontractor” means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm (including a consultant) that furnishes supplies or services to or for a prime contractor or another subcontractor.</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
