<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <concept id="id1617MD010S5"
            otherprops="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            outputclass="H4_ForH3_1-9"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title outputclass="H4ForH3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">22.101-2</ph> Contract pricing and administration.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d1264e13">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1278e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Contractor labor policies and compensation practices, whether or not included in labor-management agreements, are not acceptable bases for allowing costs in cost-reimbursement contracts or for recognition of costs in pricing fixed-price contracts if they result in unreasonable costs to the Government. For a discussion of allowable costs resulting from labor-management agreements, see <xref href="FAR-i1084735.dita#i1084735"
                        base="i1084735"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">31.205-6</xref>(b).</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1278e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Labor disputes may cause work stoppages that delay the performance of Government contracts. Contracting officers shall impress upon contractors that each contractor shall be held accountable for reasonably avoidable delays. Standard contract clauses dealing with default, excusable delays, etc., do not relieve contractors or subcontractors from the responsibility for delays that are within the contractors’ or their subcontractors’ control. A delay caused by a strike that the contractor or subcontractor could not reasonably prevent can be excused; however, it cannot be excused beyond the point at which a reasonably diligent contractor or subcontractor could have acted to end the strike by actions such as-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d1264e35">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1278e39" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Filing a charge with the National Labor Relations Board to permit the Board to seek injunctive relief in court;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1278e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Using other available Government procedures; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1278e57" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Using private boards or organizations to settle disputes.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1278e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Strikes normally result in changing patterns of cost incurrence and therefore may have an impact on the allowability of costs for cost-reimbursement contracts or for recognition of costs in pricing fixed-price contracts. Certain costs may increase because of strikes; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>guard services and attorney’s fees. Other costs incurred during a strike may not fluctuate (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>“fixed costs” such as rent and depreciation), but because of reduced production, their proportion of the unit cost of items produced increases. All costs incurred during strikes shall be carefully examined to ensure recognition of only those costs necessary for performing the contract in accordance with the Government’s essential interest.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1278e83" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  If, during a labor dispute, the inspectors’ safety is not endangered, the normal functions of inspection at the plant of a Government contractor shall be continued without regard to the existence of a labor dispute, strike, or picket line.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
