<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id2034C060YX5"
            rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.103</ph> 
         <?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?> Small business size
standards and North American Industry Classification System codes.<?FM MARKER [Why] Add section 19.103.?></title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id2034C0650B1" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                   The
contracting officer’s determination is final unless appealed as
follows:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C070WRW" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         An
appeal of a contracting officer’s NAICS code designation and the
applicable size standard shall be served and filed within 10 calendar
days after the issuance of the initial solicitation or any amendment
affecting the NAICS code or size standard. However, SBA may file
a NAICS code appeal at any time before offers are due.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C0730MA" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Appeals
of a contracting officer's NAICS code designation or applicable
size standard may be filed with SBA’s Office of Hearings and Appeals
(OHA) by—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id2034C08I0HG" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Any
person adversely affected by a NAICS code designation or applicable
size standard. However, with respect to a particular sole source
8(a) contract, only the SBA Associate Administrator for Business
Development may appeal a NAICS code designation; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id2034C0900W2" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The
Associate or Assistant Director for the SBA program involved, through
SBA’s Office of General Counsel.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C0750XP" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         Contracting
officers shall advise the public, by amendment to the solicitation,
of the existence of a NAICS code appeal (see <xref href="FAR-i1121037.dita#i1121037"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">5.102</xref>(a)(1)).
Such notices shall include the procedures and the deadline for interested
parties to file and serve arguments concerning the appeal.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C076043" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         SBA’s
OHA will dismiss summarily an untimely NAICS code appeal.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C0760IS" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         NAICS
code appeals are filed in accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-sec121-1103.xml"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 121.1103</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C0760VP" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                         Upon
receipt of a NAICS code appeal, OHA will notify the contracting
officer by a notice and order of the date OHA received the appeal,
the docket number, and the Administrative Judge assigned to the
case. The contracting officer's response to the appeal, if any,
shall include argument and evidence (see <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-part134.xml"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR part 134</xref>),
and shall be received by OHA within 15 calendar days from the date
of the docketing notice and order, unless otherwise specified by
the Administrative Judge. Upon receipt of OHA’s docketing notice
and order, the contracting officer shall withhold award, unless
withholding award is not in the best interests of the Government,
and immediately send to OHA an electronic link to or a paper copy
of both the original solicitation and all amendments relating to
the NAICS code appeal. The contracting officer shall inform OHA
of any amendments, actions, or developments concerning the procurement
in question.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id2034C077098" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                         After
close of record, OHA will issue a decision and inform the contracting
officer. If OHA’s decision is received by the contracting officer
before the date the offers are due, the decision shall be final
and the solicitation shall be amended to reflect the decision, if
appropriate. OHA’s decision received after the due date of the initial
offers shall not apply to the pending solicitation but shall apply
to future solicitations of the same products or services.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id2034C0GC0XQ" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   SBA’s
regulations concerning appeals of NAICS code designations are located
at <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-sec121-1102.xml"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 121.1102</xref> to <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-sec121-1103.xml"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">121.1103</xref> and <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-part134.xml"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR part 134</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
