<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <concept id="id1617MD00FPA"
            otherprops="01-09"
            outputclass="H3_01-09"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title outputclass="H3_1_9" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1.404</ph> Class deviations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p otherprops="Body" outputclass="Body" class="- topic/p ">Class deviations affect more than one contract action. When an agency knows that it will require a class deviation on a permanent basis, it should propose a FAR revision, if appropriate. Civilian agencies, other than NASA, must furnish a copy of each approved class deviation to the FAR Secretariat.</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d40e16">
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d42e20" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  For civilian agencies except NASA, class deviations may be authorized by agency heads or their designees, unless <xref href="FAR-i1126671.dita#i1126671"
                        base="i1126671"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">1.405</xref>(e) is applicable. Delegation of this authority shall not be made below the head of a contracting activity. Authorization of class deviations by agency officials is subject to the following limitations:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d40e29">
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d42e33" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        An agency official who may authorize a class deviation, before doing so, shall consult with the chairperson of the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council (CAA Council), unless that agency official determines that urgency precludes such consultation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li otherprops="123" outputclass="H6_123" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d42e42" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        Recommended revisions to the FAR shall be transmitted to the FAR Secretariat by agency heads or their designees for authorizing class deviations.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d42e53" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  For DoD, class deviations shall be controlled, processed, and approved in accordance with the Defense FAR Supplement.</p>
            </li>
            <li otherprops="abc" outputclass="H5_abc" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d42e62" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  For NASA, class deviations shall be controlled and approved by the Assistant Administrator for Procurement. Deviations shall be processed in accordance with agency regulations.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
