<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617ME00123"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">47.305-10</ph> Packing, marking, and consignment instructions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d2791e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2805e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Acquisition documents shall include packing and marking requirements necessary to prevent deterioration of supplies and damages due to the hazards of shipping, handling, and storage, and, when appropriate, marking in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 172.300.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2805e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Contracts shall include complete consignment and marking instructions at the time the contract is awarded to ensure that supplies are delivered to proper destinations without delay. If complete consignment information is not initially known, the contracting officer shall issue amended delivery instructions under the Changes clause of the contract (see <xref href="FAR-i1073940.dita#i1073940"
                        base="i1073940"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">43.205</xref>) as soon as the information becomes known.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2805e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If necessary to meet required delivery schedules, the contracting officer may issue instructions by telephone or electronic means. The contracting officer shall confirm telephonic instructions in writing, and confirm electronic instructions if the contracting officer did not receive confirmation of receipt.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d2805e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Marking and consignment instructions for military shipments shall conform to the current issue of MIL-STD-129 (Military Standard Marking for Shipment and Storage) and other applicable DoD regulations. Shipments for civilian agencies shall be marked as specified in Federal Standard 123, Marking for Domestic Shipment (Civil Agencies).</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
