<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1122822"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">4.603</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d220e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d222e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   In accordance with the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282),
all unclassified Federal award data must be publicly accessible.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d222e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Executive
agencies shall use FPDS to maintain publicly available information
about all unclassified contract actions exceeding the micro-purchase
threshold, and any modifications to those actions that change previously
reported contract action report data, regardless of dollar value.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d222e35" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Agencies
awarding assisted acquisitions or direct acquisitions must report
these actions and identify the Program/Funding Agency and Office
Codes from the applicable agency codes maintained by each agency
at FPDS. These codes represent the agency and office that has provided
the predominant amount of funding for the contract action. For assisted acquisitions,
the requesting agency will receive socioeconomic credit for meeting
agency small business goals, where applicable. Requesting agencies
shall provide the appropriate agency/bureau component code as part
of the written interagency agreement between the requesting and
servicing agencies <ph class="- topic/ph ">(see <xref href="FAR-i1102811.dita#i1102811"
                           base="i1102811"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">17.502-1</xref>(a)(1)).</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d222e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   Agencies
awarding contract actions with a mix of appropriated and non-appropriated
funding shall only report the full appropriated portion of the contract
action in FPDS.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
