<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1080177"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">33.201</ph> Definitions.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Accrual of a claim” means the date when all events, that fix the alleged liability of either the Government or the contractor and permit assertion of the claim, were known or should have been known. For liability to be fixed, some injury must have occurred. However, monetary damages need not have been incurred.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Alternative dispute resolution (ADR)” means any type of procedure or combination of procedures voluntarily used to resolve issues in controversy. These procedures may include, but are not limited to, conciliation, facilitation, mediation, fact-finding, minitrials, arbitration, and use of ombudsmen.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Defective certification” means a certificate which alters or otherwise deviates from the language in <xref href="FAR-i1080235.dita#i1080235"
                  base="i1080235"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">33.207</xref>(c) or which is not executed by a person authorized to bind the contractor with respect to the claim. Failure to certify shall not be deemed to be a defective certification.</p>
			      <p class="- topic/p ">“Issue in controversy” means a material disagreement between the Government and the contractor that-</p>
			      <ol id="d2195e32" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <ol id="d2195e36" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2216e40" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                May result in a claim; or</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d2216e49" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Is all or part of an existing claim.</p>
							              <p id="d2216e55" class="- topic/p ">“Misrepresentation of fact” means a false statement of substantive fact, or any conduct which leads to the belief of a substantive fact material to proper understanding of the matter in hand, made with intent to deceive or mislead.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		       <msgblock props="Citation" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre sw-d/msgblock ">[48 FR 42349, Sept. 19, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 50 FR 2270, Jan. 15, 1985; 56 FR 67417, Dec. 30, 1991; 59 FR 11381, Mar. 10, 1994; 60 FR 48230, Sept. 18, 1995; 63 FR 58594, Oct. 30, 1998; 66 FR 2132, Jan. 10, 2001; 67 FR 43514, June 27, 2002; 79 FR 24212, Apr. 29, 2014]</msgblock>
      </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
