<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  ">
	  <concept id="id1617MD00O38"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">8.705-3</ph> Allocation process.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d497e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d505e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When the direct order process has not been authorized, the ordering office shall submit a written request for allocation (requesting the designation of the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency to produce the supplies or perform the service) to the central nonprofit agency designated in the Procurement List. Ordering offices shall request allocations in sufficient time for a reply, for orders to be placed, and for the nonprofit agency to produce the supplies or provide the service within the required delivery or performance schedule.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d505e26" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The ordering office’s request to the central nonprofit agency for allocation shall include the following information:</p>
					          <ol id="d497e32" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d505e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                For supplies-Item name, stock number, latest specification, quantity, unit price, date delivery is required, and destination to which delivery is to be made.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d505e45" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                For services-Type and location of service required, latest specification, work to be performed, estimated volume, and required date or dates for completion.</p>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d505e54" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                Other requirements; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>packing, marking, as necessary.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d505e68" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            When an allocation is received, the ordering office shall promptly issue an order to the specified AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency or to the central nonprofit agency, as instructed by the allocation. If the issuance of an order is to be delayed for more than 15 days beyond receipt of the allocation, or canceled, the ordering office shall advise the central nonprofit agency immediately.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d505e77" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Ordering offices may issue orders without limitation as to dollar amount and shall record them upon issuance as obligations. Each order shall include, as a minimum, the information contained in the request for allocation. Ordering offices shall also include additional instructions necessary for performance under the order; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>on the handling of Government-furnished property, reports required, and notification of shipment.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
