<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1057874"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.219-28</ph> Post-Award Small
Business Program Rerepresentation.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3294e13" rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/p "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>As prescribed
in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1101433.dita#i1101433"
                     base="i1101433"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">19.309</xref>(c)(1)</ph>, insert
the following clause:<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 52.219-28 by— a. Revising the introductory text and the date of the clause;?></p>
         <p rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
            outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"
            class="- topic/p ">Post-Award
Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Mar 2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3264e27" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <p id="d3294e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Long-term contract</i> means
a contract of more than five years in duration, including options.
However, the term does not include contracts that exceed five years
in duration because the period of performance has been extended
for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause
at <xref href="FAR-i1057214.dita#i1057214"
                        base="i1057214"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.217-8</xref>, Option to Extend
Services, or other appropriate authority.</p>
               <p id="d3294e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small
business concern</i> means a concern, including its affiliates,
that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field
of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and
qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part
121 and the size standard in <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>paragraph
(d)<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing from the definition of “Small business concern” in paragraph (a) the phrase “paragraph (c)” and adding “paragraph (d)” in its place;?></ph> of this clause. Such a concern is “not dominant in its
field of operation” when it does not exercise a controlling or major
influence on a national basis in a kind of business activity in which
a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In determining
whether dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate
factors, including volume of business, number of employees, financial
resources, competitive status or position, ownership or control
of materials, processes, patents, license agreements, facilities,
sales territory, and nature of business activity.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>If the Contractor represented
that it was any of the small business concerns identified in <xref href="FAR-i1101771.dita#i1101771"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">19.000</xref>(a)(3)
prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent
its size and socioeconomic status according to paragraph (f) of
this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (h) of this clause, upon
occurrence of any of the following:<?FM MARKER [Why] c. Revising paragraph (b) introductory text;?></ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3264e67" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3294e66" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Within 30
days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after
modification of the contract to include this clause, if the novation
agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the
contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3294e75" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Within
30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation
or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include
this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion
of this clause in the contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3294e84" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> For long-term
contracts-</p>
                     <ol id="d3264e95" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3294e94" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Within 60 to 120 days prior to
the end of the fifth year of the contract; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d3294e103" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Within
60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising
any option thereafter.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="id203QG0L0EYK" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>If the Contractor represented
that it was any of the small business concerns identified in <xref href="FAR-i1101771.dita#i1101771"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           class="- topic/xref ">19.000</xref>(a)(3)
prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent
its size and socioeconomic status according to paragraph (f) of
this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (h) of this clause, when
the Contracting Officer explicitly requires it for an order issued
under a multiple-award contract.<?FM MARKER [Why] d. Designating paragraphs (c) through (g) as paragraphs (d) through (h); e. Adding new paragraph (c);?></ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e116" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The Contractor
shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard
in effect at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds
to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>code(s)<?FM MARKER [Why] f. Removing from newly designated paragraph (d) the two occurrences of “code” and adding “code(s)” in their places;?></ph> assigned to
this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to
this NAICS <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">code(s)</ph> can
be found at <xref href="http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e128" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <ph class="- topic/ph ">
                     <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">The</ph>
                  </ph> small business
size standard for a Contractor providing a product which it does
not manufacture itself, for a contract other than a construction
or service contract, is 500 employees.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e137" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>Except as provided in paragraph
(h) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation(s)
required by paragraph (b) and (c) of this clause by validating or
updating all its representations in the Representations and Certifications
section of the System for Award Management (SAM) and its other data
in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's
current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office
in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this
clause, or with its offer for an order (see paragraph (c) of this
clause), that the data have been validated or updated, and provide
the date of the validation or update.<?FM MARKER [Why] g. Revising newly designated paragraph (f);?></ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e147" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">If</ph> the Contractor represented
that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of
this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take
the actions required by <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [Why] FAR Case 2014-002?>paragraphs
(f) or (h)<?FM MARKER [Why] h. Removing from newly designated paragraph (g) “paragraphs (e) or (g)” and adding “paragraphs (f) or (h)” in its place;?></ph> of this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3294e156" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>If the Contractor does not
have representations and certifications in SAM, or does not have
a representation in SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract,
the Contractor is required to complete the following rerepresentation
and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract
number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed:<?FM MARKER [Why] i. Revising newly designated paragraph (h); and?></ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050KPN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">The Contractor represents
that it □ is, □ is not a small business concern
under NAICS Code _____ assigned to contract number _____.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050R7Q" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">[</ph> 
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete only if
the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in
paragraph (h)(1) of this clause</i>.<ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">] The Contractor represents
that it □ is, □ is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as
defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050R30" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">[</ph> 
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete only if
the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in
paragraph (h)(1) of this clause.</i>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">] The Contractor represents
that it □ is, □ is not a women-owned small business concern.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050SRO" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">Women-owned small business
(WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program.</ph> [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete
only if the Contractor represented itself as a women-owned small
business concern in paragraph (h)(3) of this clause.</i>] <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">The Contractor represents
that—</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203KC060G7U" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">It □ is, □ is not a WOSB
concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required
documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances
or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility;
and</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203KC060HBF" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">It □ is, □ is not a joint
venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127,
and the representation in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this clause is
accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating
in the joint venture.</ph>
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e199">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The
Contractor shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible
under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating
in the joint venture:</i>_____.]</cite> 
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">Each WOSB concern eligible
under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall
submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050SE9" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">Economically disadvantaged
women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern.</ph>[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete only
if the Contractor represented itself as a women-owned small business
concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (h)(4) of this clause.</i> 
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">] The Contractor represents
that—</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203KC0602X4" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">It □ is, □ is not an EDWOSB
concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required
documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances
or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility;
and</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203KC0604ZJ" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">It □ is, □ is not a joint
venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127,
and the representation in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this clause is
accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture.
[The Contractor shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern
and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture:
_____.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall
submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050S4Y" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">[</ph> 
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete only if
the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in
paragraph (h)(1) of this clause.</i> 
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">] The Contractor represents
that it □ is, □ is not a veteran-owned small business concern.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050TXW" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">[</ph> 
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete only if
the Contractor represented itself as a veteran-owned small business
concern in paragraph (h)(6) of this clause.</i>] <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">The Contractor represents
that it □ is, □ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business
concern.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="id203KC050VQN" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">[</ph> 
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Complete only if
the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in
paragraph (h)(1) of this clause.</i> 
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">] The Contractor represents
that—</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203KC0580BI" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone
small business concern listed, on the date of this representation,
on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained
by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in
ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage
have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part
126; and</ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="id203KC05A0BI" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone
joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part
126, and the representation in paragraph (h)(8)(i) of this clause
is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in
the HUBZone joint venture.</ph>
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e281"> [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The
Contractor shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business
concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: _____.</i>]</cite> 
                              <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">Each HUBZone small business
concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit
a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.</ph>
                           </p>
                           <p id="id203KC0K0I2L" outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor to
sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title.</i>]<ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph "> </ph>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?> 
            <p id="id203KC0R09L7"
               rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
               class="- topic/p "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2014-002?>
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I (Mar 2020)</i>.
As prescribed in <xref href="FAR-i1101433.dita#i1101433"
                     base="i1101433"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">19.309</xref>(c)(2),
substitute the following paragraph (h)(1) for paragraph (h)(1) of
the basic clause:<?FM MARKER [Why] j. Adding Alternate I.?></p>
            <p id="id203KC0R04AX"
               rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
               outputclass="List1"
               class="- topic/p ">(h)(1)
The Contractor represents its small business size status for each
one of the NAICS codes assigned to this contract.</p>
            <table frame="none" colsep="0" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table ">
               <tgroup cols="2"
                       colsep="0"
                       rowsep="0"
                       outputclass="Notitle_norule"
                       class="- topic/tgroup ">
                  <colspec colnum="1"
                           colname="1"
                           colwidth="50*"
                           colsep="0"
                           class="- topic/colspec "/>
                  <colspec colnum="2"
                           colname="2"
                           colwidth="50*"
                           colsep="0"
                           class="- topic/colspec "/>
                  <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                     <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                        <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
                              outputclass="Ctr"
                              class="- topic/p ">
                              <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">NAICS Code</b>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">
                              <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Small business concern
(yes/no)</b>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                     </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                     <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                        <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
                              outputclass="Ctr"
                              class="- topic/p ">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e330">________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e334">________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                     </row>
                     <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                        <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
                              outputclass="Ctr"
                              class="- topic/p ">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e339">________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e343">________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                     </row>
                     <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                        <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020"
                              outputclass="Ctr"
                              class="- topic/p ">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e348">________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                           <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">
                              <cite outputclass="SingleLine" xtrc="52.219-28_d25e352">________________________________</cite>
                           </p>
                        </entry>
                     </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting
Officer to insert NAICS codes.</i>]</p> 
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>