<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1062267"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.207-1</ph> Notice of Standard Competition.</title>
		    <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <p id="d3089e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <xref href="FAR-i1118673.dita#i1118673"
                     base="i1118673"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">7.305</xref>(a)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
			      <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Notice of Standard Competition (May 2006)</p>
			      <ol id="d3071e25" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3089e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            This solicitation is part of a standard competition under Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 (Revised), Performance of Commercial Activities, dated May 29, 2003 (hereafter “the Circular”), to determine whether to accomplish the specified work under contract or by Government performance.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3089e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The Government will evaluate private sector offers, the agency tender, and public reimbursable tenders, as provided in this solicitation and the Circular.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3089e47" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            A performance decision resulting from this standard competition will be publicly announced in accordance with the Circular. If the performance decision favors a private sector offeror, a contract will be awarded. If the performance decision favors an agency or a public reimbursable tender, the Contracting Officer shall establish, respectively, either a Most Efficient Organization letter of obligation or a fee-for-service agreement, as those terms are defined in the Circular.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d3089e56" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            As provided in the Circular, directly interested parties may file contests, which are governed by the procedures in Federal Acquisition Regulation <xref href="FAR-i1080465.dita#i1080465"
                        base="i1080465"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">33.103</xref>. Until resolution of any contest, or the expiration of the time for filing a contest, only legal agents for directly interested parties shall have access to the certified standard competition form, the agency tender, and public reimbursable tenders.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
			      <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
