<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD010NX"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.812</ph> Contract administration.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d1220e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1234e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The contracting officer shall assign contract administration functions, as required, based on the location of the 8(a) contractor (see Federal Directory of Contract Administration Services Components (available via the Internet at <xref href="https://pubapp.dcma.mil/CASD/main.jsp"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://pubapp.dcma.mil/CASD/main.jsp</xref>)).</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1234e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The agency shall distribute copies of the contract(s) in accordance with <xref href="FAR-i1123303.dita#i1123303"
                        base="i1123303"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  4</xref>. All contracts and modifications, if any, shall be distributed to both the SBA and the 8(a) contractor in accordance with the timeframes set forth in <xref href="FAR-i1123163.dita#i1123163"
                        base="i1123163"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.201</xref>.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1234e44" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            To the extent consistent with the contracting activity’s capability and resources, 8(a) contractors furnishing requirements shall be afforded production and technical assistance, including, when appropriate, identification of causes of deficiencies in their products and suggested corrective action to make such products acceptable.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1234e53" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            An 8(a) contract, whether in the base or an option year, must be terminated for convenience if the 8(a) contractor to which it was awarded transfers ownership or control of the firm or if the contract is transferred or novated for any reason to another firm, unless the Administrator of the SBA waives the requirement for contract termination (13 CFR 124.515). The Administrator may waive the termination requirement only if certain conditions exist. Moreover, a waiver of the requirement for termination is permitted only if the 8(a) contractor's request for waiver is made to the SBA prior to the actual relinquishment of ownership or control, except in the case of death or incapacity where the waiver must be submitted within 60 calendar days after such an occurrence. The clauses in the contract entitled “Special 8(a) Contract Conditions” and “Special 8(a) Subcontract Conditions” require the SBA and the 8(a) subcontractor to notify the contracting officer when ownership of the firm is being transferred. When the contracting officer receives information that an 8(a) contractor is planning to transfer ownership or control to another firm, the contracting officer shall take action immediately to preserve the option of waiving the termination requirement. The contracting officer shall determine the timing of the proposed transfer and its effect on contract performance and mission support. If the contracting officer determines that the SBA does not intend to waive the termination requirement, and termination of the contract would severely impair attainment of the agency's program objectives or mission, the contracting officer shall immediately notify the SBA in writing that the agency is requesting a waiver. Within 15 business days thereafter, or such longer period as agreed to by the agency and the SBA, the agency head must either confirm or withdraw the request for waiver. Unless a waiver is approved by the SBA, the contracting officer must terminate the contract for convenience upon receipt of a written request by the SBA. This requirement for a convenience termination does not affect the Government's right to terminate for default if the cause for termination of an 8(a) contract is other than the transfer of ownership or control.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
