<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1053274"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">52.223-16</ph> Acquisition of EPEAT®-Registered
Personal Computer Products.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d3366e13" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="FAR-i1094423.dita#i1094423"
                     base="i1094423"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">23.705</xref>(d)(1)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Acquisition of EPEAT®-Registered Personal
Computer Products (<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "/>Oct 2015)</p>
         <ol id="d3348e28" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3366e31" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause-</p>
               <p id="d3366e40" class="- topic/p ">“Computer” means a
device that performs logical operations and processes data. Computers
are composed of, at a minimum.</p>
               <ol id="d3348e50" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3366e47" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         A central
processing unit (CPU) to perform operations;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3366e56" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         User input
devices such as a keyboard, mouse, digitizer, or game controller;
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3366e65" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         A computer
display screen to output information. Computers include both stationary
and portable units, including desktop computers, integrated desktop
computers, notebook computers, thin clients, and workstations. Although
computers must be capable of using input devices and computer displays,
as noted in (2) and (3) above, computer systems do not need to include
these devices on shipment to meet this definition. This definition
does not include server computers, gaming consoles, mobile telephones,
portable hand-held calculators, portable digital assistants (PDAs),
MP3 players, or any other mobile computing device with displays
less than 4 inches, measured diagonally.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d3366e73" class="- topic/p ">“Computer
display” means a display screen and its associated electronics encased
in a single housing or within the computer housing (e.g., notebook
or integrated desktop computer) that is capable of displaying output
information from a computer via one or more inputs such as a VGA,
DVI, USB, DisplayPort, and/or IEEE 1394-2008™, Standard for High Performance
Serial Bus. Examples of computer display technologies are the cathode-ray
tube (CRT) and liquid crystal display (LCD).</p>
               <p id="d3366e76" class="- topic/p ">“Desktop
computer” means a computer where the main unit is intended to be
located in a permanent location, often on a desk or on the floor.
Desktops are not designed for portability and utilize an external
computer display, keyboard, and mouse. Desktops are designed for
a broad range of home and office applications.</p>
               <p id="d3366e80" class="- topic/p ">“Integrated
desktop computer” means a desktop system in which the computer and
computer display function as a single unit that receives its AC
power through a single cable. Integrated desktop computers come
in one of two possible forms:</p>
               <ol id="d3348e89" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3366e87" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         A system where
the computer display and computer are physically combined into a
single unit; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d3366e96" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         A system
packaged as a single system where the computer display is separate
but is connected to the main chassis by a DC power cord and both
the computer and computer display are powered from a single power
supply. As a subset of desktop computers, integrated desktop computers
are typically designed to provide similar functionality as desktop systems</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p id="d3366e104" class="- topic/p ">“Notebook computer” means a computer designed
specifically for portability and to be operated for extended periods
of time either with or without a direct connection to an AC power
source. Notebooks must utilize an integrated computer display and
be capable of operation off of an integrated battery or other portable
power source. In addition, most notebooks use an external power
supply and have an integrated keyboard and pointing device. Notebook
computers are typically designed to provide similar functionality
to desktops, including operation of software similar in functionality
to that used in desktops. Docking stations are considered accessories
for notebook computers, not notebook computers. Tablet PCs, which
may use touch-sensitive screens along with, or instead of, other
input devices, are considered notebook computers.</p>
               <p id="d3366e107" class="- topic/p ">“Personal
computer product” means a computer, computer display, desktop computer,
integrated desktop computer, or notebook computer.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3366e113" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Under
this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government
use, or furnish for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility,
only personal computer products that, at the time of submission
of proposals and at the time of award, were EPEAT® bronze-registered
or higher.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d3366e122" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   For information
about EPEAT®, see <xref href="http://www.epa.gov/epeat"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.epa.gov/epeat</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?> 
            <p id="d3366e139" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Jun</i> 2014)</i>. As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref href="FAR-i1094423.dita#i1094423"
                        base="i1094423"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">23.705</xref>(b)(2)</ph>, substitute
the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Under this contract, the Contractor
shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for Contractor
use at a Federally controlled facility, only personal computer products
that, at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of
award, were EPEAT® silver-registered or gold-registered.</p> 
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
