<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="id1617MD00VG0"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">14.402-1</ph> Unclassified bids.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d827e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d841e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The bid opening officer shall decide when the time set for opening bids has arrived and shall inform those present of that decision. The officer shall then (1)personally and publicly open all bids received before that time, (2)if practical, read the bids aloud to the persons present, and (3)have the bids recorded. The original of each bid shall be carefully safeguarded, particularly until the abstract of bids required by <xref href="FAR-i1109733.dita#i1109733"
                        base="i1109733"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">14.403</xref> has been made and its accuracy verified.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d841e29" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Performance of the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section may be delegated to an assistant, but the bid opening officer remains fully responsible for the actions of the assistant.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d841e38" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            Examination of bids by interested persons shall be permitted if it does not interfere unduly with the conduct of Government business. Original bids shall not be allowed to pass out of the hands of a Government official unless a duplicate bid is not available for public inspection. The original bid may be examined by the public only under the immediate supervision of a Government official and under conditions that preclude possibility of a substitution, addition, deletion, or alteration in the bid.</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
