<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	  <concept id="i1096948"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">22.1012-1</ph> Prevailing wage determinations.</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
			      <ol id="d1396e13" class="- topic/ol ">
				        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1410e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            
					          </p>
					          <ol id="d1396e23" class="- topic/ol ">
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1410e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                The Wage and Hour Administrator may issue revisions to prevailing wage determinations periodically. The need for inclusion of a revised prevailing wage determination in a solicitation, contract or contract modification (see <xref href="FAR-i1096782.dita#i1096782"
                              base="i1096782"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1007</xref>) is determined by the date of receipt of the revised prevailing wage determination by the contracting agency. (Note the distinction between receipt by the agency and receipt by the contracting officer which may occur later.)</p>
							              <ol id="d1396e36" class="- topic/ol ">
								                <li class="- topic/li ">
									                  <p id="d1410e40" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
										                    For purposes of using WDOL, the time of receipt by the contracting agency shall be the first day of publication of the revised prevailing wage determination on the website.</p>
								                </li>
								                <li class="- topic/li ">
									                  <p id="d1410e49" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
										                    For purposes of using the e98 process, the time of receipt by the contracting agency shall be the date the agency receives actual notice of a new or revised prevailing wage determination from the Department of Labor as an e98 response.</p>
								                </li>
							              </ol>
						            </li>
						            <li class="- topic/li ">
							              <p id="d1410e60" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
								                In selecting a prevailing wage determination from the WDOL website for use in a solicitation or other contract action, the contracting officer shall monitor the WDOL website to determine whether the applicable wage determination has been revised. Revisions published on the WDOL website or otherwise communicated to the contracting officer within the timeframes prescribed at <xref href="#i1096948"
                              base="i1096948"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1012-1</xref>(b) and (c) are effective and must be included in the resulting contract. Monitoring can be accomplished by use of the WDOL website’s “Alert Service”.</p>
						            </li>
					          </ol>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1410e74" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            The following shall apply when contracting by sealed bidding: a revised prevailing wage determination shall not be effective if it is received by the contracting agency less than 10 days before the opening of bids, and the contracting officer finds that there is not reasonable time to incorporate the revision in the solicitation.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1410e83" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            For contractual actions other than sealed bidding, a revised prevailing wage determination received by the contracting agency after award of a new contract or a modification as specified in <xref href="FAR-i1096782.dita#i1096782"
                        base="i1096782"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.1007</xref>(b) shall not be effective provided that the start of performance is within 30 days of the award or the specified modification. If the contract does not specify a start of performance date which is within 30 days of the award or the specified modification, and if contract performance does not commence within 30 days of the award or the specified modification, any revision received by the contracting agency not less than 10 days before commencement of the work shall be effective.</p>
				        </li>
				        <li class="- topic/li ">
					          <p id="d1410e95" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
						            If the contracting officer has submitted an e98 to the Department of Labor requesting a prevailing wage determination and has not received a response within 10 days, the contracting officer shall contact the Wage and Hour Division by telephone to determine when the wage determination can be expected. (The telephone number is provided on the e98 website.)</p>
				        </li>
			      </ol>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
