<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="i1101041"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">19.402</ph> Small Business Administration
procurement center representatives.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1154e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1175e17" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1154e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e27" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> 
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">The SBA may assign one or
more procurement center representatives (PCRs) to any contracting
activity or contract administration office to carry out SBA policies
and programs. Assigned SBA PCRs are required to comply with the contracting
agency's directives governing the conduct of contracting personnel
and the release of contract information. The SBA must obtain for
its PCRs security clearances required by the contracting agency.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e36" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> 
                        <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">If an SBA PCR is not assigned
to the procuring activity or contract administration office, contact
the SBA Office of Government Contracting Area Office serving the
area in which the procuring activity is located for assistance in
carrying out SBA policies and programs. See <xref href="https://www.sba.gov/?federal-contracting/?counseling-help/?procurement-center-representative-directory"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sba.gov/?federal-contracting/?counseling-help/?procurement-center-representative-directory</xref> for
the location of the SBA office servicing the activity.</ph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1175e50" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">Upon their request and subject
to applicable acquisition and security regulations, contracting
officers shall give SBA PCRs (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see
paragraph (a) of this section) access to all reasonably obtainable
contract information that is directly pertinent to their official
duties.</ph>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1175e59" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> 
                  <ph rev="FAC 2020-05 March 30, 2020" class="- topic/ph ">The duties assigned by SBA
to its PCR are set forth at <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2019-title13-vol1/xml/CFR-2019-title13-vol1-sec125-2.xml"
                           format="html"
                           scope="external"
                           class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.2</xref>(b) and
include but are not limited to the following:</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1154e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e69" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Reviewing
proposed acquisitions to recommend-</p>
                     <ol id="d1154e75" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1175e79" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The setting
aside of selected acquisitions not unilaterally set aside by the
contracting officer;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1175e88" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> New qualified
small business sources, including veteran-owned small, service-disabled
veteran-owned small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, economically
disadvantaged women-owned small, and women-owned small eligible
under the Women-Owned Small Business Program; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1175e97" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Breakout
of components for competitive acquisitions.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e108" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Reviewing
proposed acquisition packages provided in accordance with <xref href="FAR-i1101585.dita#i1101585"
                              base="i1101585"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.202-1</xref>(e). If the SBA
procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative
is not assigned, see paragraph (a) of this section) believes that the
acquisition, as proposed, makes it unlikely that small businesses
can compete for the prime contract, the representative shall recommend
any alternate contracting method that the representative reasonably
believes will increase small business prime contracting opportunities.
The recommendation shall be made to the contracting officer within
15 days after receipt of the package.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e120" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Recommending
concerns for inclusion on a list of concerns to be solicited in
a specific acquisition.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e129" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Appealing
to the chief of the contracting office any contracting officer’s
determination not to solicit a concern recommended by the SBA for
a particular acquisition, when not doing so results in no small
business being solicited.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e138" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Conducting
periodic reviews of the contracting activity to which assigned to
ascertain whether it is complying with the small business policies
in this regulation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1175e148" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Sponsoring
and participating in conferences and training designed to increase
small business participation in the contracting activities of the
office.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>