<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_25_101"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">25.101</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1594e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1616e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>The Buy American statute restricts
the purchase of supplies that are not domestic end products. For
manufactured</p>
               <p id="d1616e14" class="- topic/p ">end products, the Buy American statute and E.O. 13881 use a
two-part test to define a domestic end product.</p>
               <ol id="d1594e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1616e18" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The article
must be manufactured in the United States; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d1616e23" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1616e28" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              Except for an end product
that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both, the cost of domestic components must exceed 55 percent
of the cost of all the components. In accordance with 41 U.S.C.
1907, this domestic content test of the Buy American statute has
been waived for acquisitions of COTS items (see <xref href="12.505.dita#FAR_12_505"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">12.505</xref>(a))
(but see paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section).
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p id="d1616e36" class="- topic/p ">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              For an end product that
consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination
of both, the cost of foreign iron and steel must constitute less
than 5 percent of the cost of all the components used in the end
product (see the definition of "foreign iron and steel" at <xref href="25.003.dita#FAR_25_003"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">25.003</xref>).
The cost of foreign iron and steel includes but is not limited to
the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet,
slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in
the manufacture of the end product and a good faith estimate of
the cost of all foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS
fasteners. This domestic content test of the Buy American statute
has not been waived for acquisitions of COTS items in this category,
except for COTS fasteners.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1616e44" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The Buy
American statute applies to small business set-asides. A manufactured
product of a small business concern is a U.S.-made end product,
but is not a domestic end product unless it meets the domestic content test in
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d1616e49" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Exceptions
that allow the purchase of a foreign end product are listed at <xref href="25.103.dita#FAR_25_103"
                        base="i1093528"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">25.103</xref>. The unreasonable
cost exception is implemented through the use of an evaluation factor
applied to low foreign offers that are not eligible offers. The
evaluation factor is not used to provide a preference for one foreign
offer over another. Evaluation procedures and examples are provided
in 
                     <xref href="Subpart_25.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_25_5"
                        base="i1091551"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  25.5</xref> 
                     
                  .</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
