<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_12_403" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">12.403</ph> Termination.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d705e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General</i>. The clause at <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref> permits the Government
to terminate a contract for commercial
products or commercial services either for the convenience
of the Government or for cause. However, the paragraphs in <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref> entitled "Termination
for the Government’s Convenience" and "Termination for Cause" contain
concepts which differ from those contained in the termination clauses
prescribed in <xref href="Part_49.dita#FAR_Part_49"
                        base="i1069121"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  49</xref>. Consequently,
the requirements of <xref href="Part_49.dita#FAR_Part_49"
                        base="i1069121"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  49</xref> do
not apply when terminating contracts for commercial products or
commercial services and contracting officers shall follow the
procedures in this section. Contracting officers may continue to
use <xref href="Part_49.dita#FAR_Part_49"
                        base="i1069121"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  49</xref> as guidance
to the extent that <xref href="Part_49.dita#FAR_Part_49"
                        base="i1069121"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  49</xref> does
not conflict with this section and the language of the termination
paragraphs in <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e39">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Policy</i>.
The contracting officer should exercise the Government’s right to
terminate a contract for commercial
products or commercial services either for convenience or for
cause only when such a termination would be in the best interests of
the Government. The contracting officer should consult with counsel
prior to terminating for cause.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e46">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Termination
for cause.</p>
               <ol id="d705e69" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e52">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The paragraph in <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                              base="i1060971"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref> entitled "Excusable
Delay" requires contractors notify the contracting officer as soon
as possible after commencement of any excusable delay. In most situations,
this requirement should eliminate the need for a show cause notice
prior to terminating a contract. The contracting officer shall send
a cure notice prior to terminating a contract for a reason other
than late delivery.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e60">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Government’s
rights after a termination for cause shall include all the remedies
available to any buyer in the marketplace. The Government’s preferred
remedy will be to acquire similar items from another contractor
and to charge the defaulted contractor with any excess reprocurement
costs together with any incidental or consequential damages incurred
because of the termination.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e65">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> When a termination
for cause is appropriate, the contracting officer shall send the
contractor a written notification regarding the termination. At
a minimum, this notification shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d705e100" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e71">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Indicate the
contract is terminated for cause;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e76">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Specify
the reasons for the termination;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e81">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Indicate
which remedies the Government intends to seek or provide a date
by which the Government will inform the contractor of the remedy;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e86">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> State that
the notice constitutes a final decision of the contracting officer
and that the contractor has the right to appeal under the Disputes
clause (see <xref href="33.211.dita#FAR_33_211"
                                    base="i1080268"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">33.211</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e94">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The contracting
officer, in accordance with agency procedures, shall ensure that
information related to termination for cause notices and any amendments
are reported. In the event the termination for cause is subsequently
converted to a termination for convenience, or is otherwise withdrawn,
the contracting officer shall ensure that a notice of the conversion
or withdrawal is reported. All reporting shall be in accordance
with <xref href="42.1503.dita#FAR_42_1503"
                              base="i1074269"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">42.1503</xref>(h).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e102">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Termination
for the Government’s convenience.</p>
               <ol id="d705e165" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e108">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> When the contracting
officer terminates a contract for commercial products or
commercial services for the Government’s convenience, the contractor
shall be paid-</p>
                     <ol id="d705e175" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e114">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                           </p>
                           <ol id="d705e185" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e119">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> The
percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the
work performed prior to the notice of the termination for fixed-price
or fixed-price with economic price adjustment contracts; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e124">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> An amount
for direct labor hours (as defined in the Schedule of the contract)
determined by multiplying the number of direct labor hours expended
before the effective date of termination by the hourly rate(s) in
the Schedule; and</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e129">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Any charges
the contractor can demonstrate directly resulted from the termination.
The contractor may demonstrate such charges using its standard record
keeping system and is not required to comply with the cost accounting standards
or the contract cost principles in <xref href="Part_31.dita#FAR_Part_31"
                                    base="i1086363"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  31</xref>. The Government
does not have any right to audit the contractor’s records solely
because of the termination for convenience.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d732e137">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Generally,
the parties should mutually agree upon the requirements of the termination
proposal. The parties must balance the Government’s need to obtain
sufficient documentation to support payment to the contractor against
the goal of having a simple and expeditious settlement.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
