<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_14_408_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">14.408-4</ph> Economic price adjustment.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d848e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            Bidder proposes economic price adjustment.</p>
               <ol id="d848e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                When a solicitation does not contain an economic price adjustment clause but a bidder proposes one with a ceiling that the price will not exceed, the bid shall be evaluated on the basis of the maximum possible economic price adjustment of the quoted base price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                If the bid is eligible for award, the contracting officer shall request the bidder to agree to the inclusion in the award of an approved economic price adjustment clause (see <xref href="16.203.dita#FAR_16_203"
                              base="i1104876"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">16.203</xref>) that is subject to the same ceiling. If the bidder will not agree to an approved clause, the award may be made on the basis of the bid as originally submitted.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                Bids that contain economic price adjustments with no ceiling shall be rejected unless a clear basis for evaluation exists.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e34">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						            Government proposes economic price adjustment.</p>
               <ol id="d848e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e40">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                When an invitation contains an economic price adjustment clause and no bidder takes exception to the provisions, bids shall be evaluated on the basis of the quoted prices without the allowable economic price adjustment being added.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                When a bidder increases the maximum percentage of economic price adjustment stipulated in the invitation or limits the downward economic price adjustment provisions of the invitation, the bid shall be rejected as nonresponsive.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e50">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                When a bid indicates deletion of the economic price adjustment clause, the bid shall be rejected as nonresponsive since the downward economic price adjustment provisions are thereby limited.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d875e55">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
								                When a bidder decreases the maximum percentage of economic price adjustment stipulated in the invitation, the bid shall be evaluated at the base price on an equal basis with bids that do not reduce the stipulated ceiling. However, after evaluation, if the bidder offering the lower ceiling is in a position to receive the award, the award shall reflect the lower ceiling.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
