<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_15_404_3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">15.404-3</ph> Subcontract pricing considerations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d912e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						             The contracting officer is responsible for the determination of a fair and reasonable price for the prime contract, including subcontracting costs. The contracting officer should consider whether a contractor or subcontractor has an approved purchasing system, has performed cost or price analysis of proposed subcontractor prices, or has negotiated the subcontract prices before negotiation of the prime contract, in determining the reasonableness of the prime contract price. This does not relieve the contracting officer from the responsibility to analyze the contractor’s submission, including subcontractor’s certified cost or pricing data.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						             The prime contractor or subcontractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d912e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                 Conduct appropriate cost or price analyses to establish the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                 Include the results of these analyses in the price proposal; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                 When required by paragraph (c) of this subsection, submit subcontractor certified cost or pricing data to the Government as part of its own certified cost or pricing data.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						             Any contractor or subcontractor that is required to submit certified cost or pricing data also shall obtain and analyze certified cost or pricing data before awarding any subcontract, purchase order, or modification expected to exceed the certified cost or pricing data threshold, unless an exception in <xref href="15.403-1.dita#FAR_15_403_1"
                        base="i1105936"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(b) applies to that action.</p>
               <ol id="d912e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                 The contractor shall submit, or cause to be submitted by the subcontractor(s), certified cost or pricing data to the Government for subcontracts that are the lower of either-</p>
                     <ol id="d912e84" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e51">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$20 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 15.404-3 in paragraph (c)(1)(i) by removing “$15 million” and adding “$20 million” in its place.?></ph> or more; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e56">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              
										                     Both more than the pertinent certified cost or pricing data threshold and more than 10 percent of the prime contractor’s proposed price, unless the contracting officer believes such submission is unnecessary.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e61">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                 The contracting officer should require the contractor or subcontractor to submit to the Government (or cause submission of) subcontractor certified cost or pricing data below the thresholds in paragraph (c)(1) of this subsection and data other than certified cost or pricing data that the contracting officer considers necessary for adequately pricing the prime contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e66">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Subcontractor certified cost or pricing data shall be submitted in the format provided in <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                              base="i1106753"
                              outputclass="fm:TEXT"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref> of <xref href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                              base="i1106593"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.408</xref> or the alternate format specified in the solicitation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e77">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        
								                 Subcontractor certified cost or pricing data shall be current, accurate, and complete as of the date of price agreement, or, if applicable, an earlier date agreed upon by the parties and specified on the contractor’s Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data. The contractor shall update subcontractor’s data, as appropriate, during source selection and negotiations.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d940e82">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
								                 If there is more than one prospective subcontractor for any given work, the contractor need only submit to the Government certified cost or pricing data for the prospective subcontractor most likely to receive the award.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
