<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_16_503" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">16.503</ph> Requirements contracts.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1015e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Description</i>. A requirements
contract provides for filling all actual purchase requirements of
designated Government activities for supplies or services during
a specified contract period (from one contractor), with deliveries
or performance to be scheduled by placing orders with the contractor.</p>
               <ol id="d1015e26" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e18">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> For
the information of offerors and contractors, the contracting officer
shall state a realistic estimated total quantity in the solicitation
and resulting contract. This estimate is not a representation to
an offeror or contractor that the estimated quantity will be required
or ordered, or that conditions affecting requirements will be stable
or normal. The contracting officer may obtain the estimate from
records of previous requirements and consumption, or by other means, and
should base the estimate on the most current information available.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The contract
shall state, if feasible, the maximum limit of the contractor’s
obligation to deliver and the Government’s obligation to order.
The contract may also specify maximum or minimum quantities that
the Government may order under each individual order and the maximum
that it may order during a specified period of time.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Application</i>.</p>
               <ol id="d1015e59" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A
requirements contract may be appropriate for acquiring any supplies
or services when the Government anticipates recurring requirements
but cannot predetermine the precise quantities of supplies or services
that designated Government activities will need during a definite
period.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> No requirements contract in an amount estimated to exceed <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$150 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 16.503 by—   a. Removing from paragraph (b)(2) “$100 million” and adding “$150 million” in its place; and?></ph> (including all options) may be awarded to a single source unless a determination is executed in accordance with <xref href="16.504.dita#FAR_16_504"
                              base="i1103941"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">16.504</xref>(c)(1)(ii)(D).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Government
property furnished for repair</i>. When a requirements contract
is used to acquire work (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> repair, modification, or overhaul)
on existing items of Government property, the contracting officer
shall specify in the Schedule that failure of the Government to
furnish such items in the amounts or quantities described in the
Schedule as "estimated" or "maximum" will not entitle the contractor
to any equitable adjustment in price under the Government Property
clause of the contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Limitations
on use of requirements contracts for advisory and assistance services.</p>
               <ol id="d1015e107" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e65">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no solicitation for a requirements contract for advisory and assistance services in excess of three years and <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$20 million<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing from paragraph (d) “$15 million” and adding “$20 million” in its place.?></ph> (including all options) may be issued unless the contracting officer or other official designated by the head of the agency determines in writing that the services required are so unique or highly specialized that it is not practicable to make multiple awards using the procedures in <xref href="16.504.dita#FAR_16_504"
                              base="i1103941"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">16.504</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1043e73">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>  The limitation
in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is not applicable to an acquisition
of supplies or services that includes the acquisition of advisory
and assistance services, if the contracting officer or other official
designated by the head of the agency determines that the advisory
and assistance services are necessarily incident to, and not a significant
component of, the contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
