<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_501" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.501</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1157e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e15">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The purpose of small business
set-asides is to award certain acquisitions exclusively to small
business concerns. A "set-aside for small business" is the limiting
of an acquisition exclusively for participation by small business concerns.
A small business set-aside may be open to any of the small business
concerns identified at <xref href="19.000.dita#FAR_19_000"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.000</xref>(a)(3). A small
business set-aside of a single acquisition or a class of acquisitions
may be total or partial.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The purpose
of small business reserves is to award one or more multiple-award
contracts to any of the small business concerns identified at <xref href="19.000.dita#FAR_19_000"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.000</xref>(a)(3),
under a full and open competition. A small business reserve shall
not be used when the acquisition can be set aside, in total or in
part.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e31">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The contracting
officer makes the determination to make a small business set-aside,
in total or in part, or a reserve. The Small Business Administration
(SBA) procurement center representative (PCR) (or, if a PCR is not
assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)) may make a
recommendation to the contracting officer.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e39">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The contracting
officer shall review acquisitions to determine if they can be set
aside, in total or in part, or reserved for small business, giving
consideration to the recommendations of agency personnel in the
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, or for the
Department of Defense, in the Office of Small Business Programs.
Agencies may establish threshold levels for this review depending
upon their needs.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  At the request of an
SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                        base="i1101041"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)), the contracting
officer shall make available for review at the contracting office
(to the extent of the SBA representative's security clearance) any
proposed acquisition in excess of the micro-purchase threshold.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e52">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> All solicitations
involving set-asides, in total or in part, or reserves shall specify
the NAICS code(s) and corresponding size standard(s) (see <xref href="19.102.dita#FAR_19_102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.102</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e60">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> Except
as authorized by law, a contract may not be awarded as a result
of a small business set-aside if the cost to the awarding agency
exceeds the fair market price.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1186e65">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph> For the
applicability of the limitations on subcontracting and the nonmanufacturer
rule, see <xref href="19.505.dita#FAR_19_505"
                        base="id203CGK00TBF"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.505</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
