<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_705_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.705-4</ph> Reviewing the subcontracting
plan.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d1213e8" class="- topic/p ">The contracting officer shall review
the subcontracting plan for adequacy, ensuring that the required
information, goals, and assurances are included (see <xref href="19.704.dita#FAR_19_704"
                  base="i1100278"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">19.704</xref>).</p>
         <ol id="d1187e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> No
detailed standards apply to every subcontracting plan. Instead,
the contracting officer shall consider each plan in terms of the
circumstances of the particular acquisition, including-</p>
               <ol id="d1187e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Previous
involvement of small business concerns as prime contractors or subcontractors
in similar acquisitions;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Proven
methods of involving small business concerns as subcontractors in
similar acquisitions; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The relative
success of methods the contractor intends to use to meet the goals
and requirements of the plan, as evidenced by records maintained
by contractors.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> If, under
a sealed bid solicitation, a bidder submits a plan that does not
cover each of the 15 required elements (see <xref href="19.704.dita#FAR_19_704"
                        base="i1100278"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.704</xref>), the contracting
officer shall advise the bidder of the deficiency and request submission
of a revised plan by a specific date. If the bidder does not submit
a plan that incorporates the required elements within the time allotted,
the bidder shall be ineligible for award. If the plan, although
responsive, evidences the bidder’s intention not to comply with
its obligations under the clause at <xref href="52.219-8.dita#FAR_52_219_8"
                        base="i1057444"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.219-8</xref>, Utilization
of Small Business Concerns, the contracting officer may find the
bidder nonresponsible.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> In negotiated
acquisitions, the contracting officer shall determine whether the
plan is acceptable based on the negotiation of each of the 15 elements
of the plan (see <xref href="19.704.dita#FAR_19_704"
                        base="i1100278"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.704</xref>). Subcontracting
goals should be set at a level that the parties reasonably expect
can result from the offeror expending good faith efforts to use
small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business subcontractors to the maximum practicable
extent. The contracting officer shall take particular care to ensure
that the offeror has not submitted unreasonably low goals to minimize
exposure to liquidated damages and to avoid the administrative burden
of substantiating good faith efforts. Additionally, particular attention
should be paid to the identification of steps that, if taken, would
be considered a good faith
effort (see <xref href="19.705-7.dita#FAR_19_705_7"
                        base="i1100278"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">19.705-7</xref>). No goal
should be negotiated upward if it is apparent that a higher goal
will significantly increase the Government’s cost or seriously impede
the attainment of acquisition objectives. An incentive subcontracting
clause (see <xref href="52.219-10.dita#FAR_52_219_10"
                        base="i1057667"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.219-10</xref>,
Incentive Subcontracting Program), may be used when additional and
unique contract effort, such as providing technical assistance,
could significantly increase subcontract awards to small business,
small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned
small business concerns.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e61">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> In determining
the acceptability of a proposed subcontracting plan, the contracting
officer should take the following actions:</p>
               <ol id="d1187e101" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e67">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Obtain information
available from the cognizant contract administration office, as
provided for in <xref href="19.706.dita#FAR_19_706"
                              base="i1100468"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.706</xref>(a), and evaluate
the offeror’s past performance in awarding subcontracts for the
same or similar products or services to small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns. If information is not available on a specific type
of product or service, evaluate the offeror’s overall past performance
and consider the performance of other contractors on similar efforts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e75">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In accordance
with <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section637(d)(4)(F)(iii)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(iii)</xref>,
ensure that the goals offered are attainable in relation to-</p>
                     <ol id="d1187e126" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e84">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
subcontracting opportunities available to the contractor, commensurate
with the efficient and economical performance of the contract;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e89">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The pool
of eligible subcontractors available to fulfill the subcontracting
opportunities; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e94">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The actual
performance of such contractor in fulfilling the subcontracting
goals specified in prior plans.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e99">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Ensure
that the subcontracting goals are consistent with the offeror’s
certified cost or pricing data or data other than certified cost
or pricing data.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e104">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Evaluate
the offeror’s make-or-buy policy or program to ensure that it does
not conflict with the offeror’s proposed subcontracting plan and
is in the Government’s interest. If the contract involves products
or services that are particularly specialized or not generally available
in the commercial market, consider the offeror’s current capacity
to perform the work and the possibility of reduced subcontracting
opportunities.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e109">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Evaluate
subcontracting potential, considering the offeror’s make-or-buy
policies or programs, the nature of the supplies or services to
be subcontracted, the known availability of small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns in the geographical area where the work will be
performed, and the potential contractor’s long-standing contractual
relationship with its suppliers.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e114">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Advise
the offeror of available sources of information on potential small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business subcontractors, as well as any specific
concerns known to be potential subcontractors. If the offeror’s
proposed goals are questionable, the contracting officer must emphasize
that the information should be used to develop realistic and acceptable
goals.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1219e119">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> Obtain
advice and recommendations from the SBA procurement center representative
(or, if a procurement center representative is not assigned, see <xref href="19.402.dita#FAR_19_402"
                              base="i1101041"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.402</xref>(a)) and the agency
small business specialist.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
