<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_702" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.702</ph> Statutory requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d1215e8" class="- topic/p ">
            Any
            contractor receiving a contract with a value greater than the
            simplified acquisition threshold must agree in the contract that
            small business, veteran-owned small business (VOSB),
            service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB), HUBZone
            small business, small disadvantaged business (SDB), and women-owned
            small business (WOSB) concerns will have the maximum practicable
            opportunity to participate in contract performance consistent with
            its efficient performance. It is further the policy of the United
            States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure the
            timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of their
            subcontracts with small business, VOSB concerns, SDVOSB concerns,
            HUBZone small business concerns, SDB concerns, and WOSB
            concerns.
         </p>
         <ol id="d1180e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d1180e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e17">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         Except as
stated in paragraph (b) of this section, section 8(d) of the Small
Business Act (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section637&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(</xref> d)) imposes
the following requirements regarding subcontracting with small businesses
and small business subcontracting plans:</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e26">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> In negotiated acquisitions, each solicitation of offers to perform a contract that is expected to exceed <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$900,000 ($2 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.702 by removing from paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) “$750,000 ($1.5 million” and adding “$900,000 ($2 million” in their places, respectively.?></ph> for construction) and that has subcontracting possibilities, shall require the apparently successful offeror to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan. If the apparently successful offeror fails to negotiate a subcontracting plan acceptable to the contracting officer within the time limit prescribed by the contracting officer, the offeror will be ineligible for award. For a multiple-award contract with more than one North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code, see paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e31">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> In sealed bidding acquisitions, each invitation for bids to perform a contract that is expected to exceed <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$900,000 ($2 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.702 by removing from paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) “$750,000 ($1.5 million” and adding “$900,000 ($2 million” in their places, respectively.?></ph> for construction) and that has subcontracting possibilities, shall require the bidder selected for award to submit a subcontracting plan. If the selected bidder fails to submit a plan within the time limit prescribed by the contracting officer, the bidder will be ineligible for award. For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, see paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e36">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Each contract modification that causes the value of a contract without a subcontracting plan to exceed <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$900,000 ($2 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.702 by removing from paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) “$750,000 ($1.5 million” and adding “$900,000 ($2 million” in their places, respectively.?></ph> for construction), shall require the contractor to submit a subcontracting plan for the contract, if the contracting officer determines that subcontracting opportunities exist. For a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, see paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e46">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               For a multiple-award
contract with more than one NAICS code, the solicitation referenced
in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section shall require the
apparently successful offeror to submit an acceptable subcontracting
plan for either the distinct portion(s) or category(ies) of their
proposal for which the offeror is other than small or for the entirety
of their proposal, at the offeror's discretion. When determining
the need for a subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall
consider the cumulative dollar value of the portion(s) or category(ies)
of the offeror's proposal for which the offeror is other than small.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e51">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               For a
multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code, the modification
referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall require
the contractor to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan for either
the distinct portion(s) or category(ies) of the contract for which
the contractor is other than small or for the entirety of their
contract, at the contractor's discretion. When determining the need
for a subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall consider
the cumulative dollar value of the portion(s) or category(ies) of
the contract for which the contractor is other than small.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e56">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Subcontracting
plans (see paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section) are not required–</p>
               <ol id="d1180e68" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e62">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                         From
small business concerns;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e67">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         For personal
services contracts;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e72">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                         For contracts
or contract modifications that will be performed entirely outside
of the United States and its outlying areas; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e77">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                         For modifications
that are within the scope of the contract and the contract does
not contain the clause at <xref href="52.219-8.dita#FAR_52_219_8"
                              base="i1057444"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-8</xref>,
Utilization of Small Business Concerns.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e85">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                   As stated
in <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section637(d)(9)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(9)</xref>,
any contractor or subcontractor failing to comply in good faith
with the requirements of the subcontracting plan is in material
breach of its contract. Further, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section637(d)(4)(F)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)</xref> directs
that a contractor’s failure to make a good faith effort to comply
with the requirements of the subcontracting plan shall result in
the imposition of liquidated damages.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1212e96">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                   As authorized by <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section637(d)(12)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 637(d)(12)</xref>, certain costs incurred by a mentor firm in providing developmental assistance to a protégé firm under the Department of Defense Mentor-Protégé Program, may be credited as if they were subcontract awards to a protégé firm for the purpose of determining whether the mentor firm attains the applicable goals under any subcontracting plan entered into with any executive agency. However, the mentor-protégé agreement must have been approved by the Director, Small Business Programs of the cognizant DoD military department or defense agency, before developmental assistance costs may be credited against subcontract goals. A list of approved agreements may be obtained at <xref href="https://business.defense.gov/Programs/Mentor-Protege-Program/"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">https://business.defense.gov/Programs/Mentor-Protege-Program/.</xref>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1216e106">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  In accordance with <xref href="https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/15/657r"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15 U.S.C. 657r(a)</xref>, a mentor with an SBA-approved mentor-protégé agreement (see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-13/section-125.9"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">13 CFR 125.9</xref>) that provides a subcontract to its protégé may apply the costs incurred for training it provides to its protégé toward its subcontracting plan goals, provided that protégé is a covered territory business or that protégé has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
