<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_808_1" xtrc="" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.808-1</ph> Sole source.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1212e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1244e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The SBA may not accept for negotiation a sole-source 8(a) contract that exceeds <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$30 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.808-1 in paragraph (a) by removing “$25 million” and adding “$30 million” in its place.?></ph> unless the requesting agency has completed a justification in accordance with the requirements of <xref href="6.303.dita#FAR_6_303"
                        base="i1119735"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">6.303</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1244e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						             The SBA is responsible for initiating negotiations with the agency within the time established by the agency. If the SBA does not initiate negotiations within the agreed time and the agency cannot allow additional time, the agency may, after notifying the SBA, proceed with the acquisition from other sources.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1244e23">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						             The SBA should participate, whenever practicable, in negotiating the contracting terms. When mutually agreeable, the SBA may authorize the contracting officer to negotiate directly with the 8(a) participant. Whether or not direct negotiations take place, the SBA is responsible for approving the resulting contract before award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1244e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						             An 8(a) participant must represent that it is a small business in accordance with the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  A concern must be a current participant in the 8(a) program at the time of an 8(a) sole-source award.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1244e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> An 8(a) participant owned by an Alaska Native Corporation, Indian Tribe, Native Hawaiian Organization, or Community Development Corporation may not receive an 8(a) sole-source award that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract, if the predecessor contract was performed by another 8(a) participant (or former 8(a) participant) owned by the same Alaska Native Corporation, Indian Tribe, Native Hawaiian Organization, or Community Development Corporation (See <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">13 CFR 124.109</ph> through 124.111).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
