<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_19_805_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">19.805-1</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1207e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Except as provided in paragraph
(b) of this section, an acquisition offered to the SBA under the
8(a) program shall be awarded on the basis of competition limited
to eligible 8(a) participants when-</p>
               <ol id="d1207e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> There is a
reasonable expectation that at least two eligible and responsible
8(a) participants will submit offers and that award can be made
at a fair market price; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The anticipated total value of the contract, including options, will exceed <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$8.5 million<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 19.805-1 in paragraph (a)(2) by removing “$7 million” and “$4.5 million” and adding “$8.5 million” and “$5.5 million” in their places, respectively.?></ph> for acquisitions assigned manufacturing North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes and <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$5.5 million</ph> for all other acquisitions.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Where an
acquisition exceeds the competitive threshold (see paragraph (a)(2)
of this section), the SBA may accept the requirement for a sole
source 8(a) award if-</p>
               <ol id="d1207e53" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e32">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> There is not a reasonable expectation
that at least two eligible and responsible 8(a) participants will
submit offers at a fair market price; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> SBA accepts
the requirement on behalf of a concern owned by an Indian tribe
or an Alaska Native Corporation.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> A proposed
8(a) requirement with an estimated value exceeding the applicable
competitive threshold amount shall not be divided into several requirements
for lesser amounts in order to use 8(a) sole source procedures for
award to a single firm.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1239e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The SBA
Associate Administrator for Business Development may approve a contracting
office's request for a competitive 8(a) award below the competitive
thresholds. Such requests will be approved only on a limited basis
and will be primarily granted where technical competitions are appropriate
or where a large number of responsible 8(a) participants are available
for competition. In determining whether a request to compete below
the threshold will be approved, the SBA Associate Administrator
for Business Development will, in part, consider the extent to which
the contracting activity is supporting the 8(a) program on a noncompetitive
basis. The agency may include recommendations for competition below the
threshold in the offering letter or by separate correspondence to
the SBA Associate Administrator for Business Development.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
