<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_1008_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.1008-1</ph> Obtaining wage determinations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1386e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Contracting officers may obtain
most prevailing wage determinations using the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                   website.
Contracting officers may also use the Department of Labor’s e98
electronic process, located on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                   website,
to request a wage determination directly from the Department of
Labor. If the Wage Determinations
at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                   database does not contain the applicable
prevailing wage determination for a contract action, the contracting
officer must use the e98 process to request a wage determination
from the Department of Labor.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e24">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> In using
the e98 process to obtain prevailing wage determinations, contracting
officers shall provide as complete and accurate information on the
e98 as possible. Contracting officers shall ensure that the email
address submitted on an e98 request is accurate.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e29">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The contracting
officer must anticipate the amount of time required to gather the
information necessary to obtain a wage determination, including
sufficient time, if necessary, to contact the Department of Labor
to request wage determinations that are not available through use
of the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                  .</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e37">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Although
the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                   website
provides assistance to the contracting agency to select the correct
wage determination, the contracting agency remains responsible for
the wage determination selected. If the contracting agency has used
the e98 process, the Department of Labor will respond to the contracting
agency based on the information provided on the e98. The contracting
agency may rely upon the Department of Labor response as the correct wage
determination for the contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e45">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> To obtain
the applicable wage determination for each contract action, the
contracting officer shall determine the following information concerning
the service employees expected to be employed by the contractor
and any subcontractors in performing the contract:</p>
               <ol id="d1386e59" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e51">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Determine
the classes of service employees to be utilized in performance of
the contract using the Wage and Hour Division’s <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Service Contract
Act Directory of Occupations</i> (Directory). The Directory can
be found on Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         Library
Page, and is for sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Publishing Office.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e62">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Determine
the locality where the services will be performed (see <xref href="22.1009.dita#FAR_22_1009"
                              base="i1096873"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1009</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e70">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Determine
whether <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section6707(c)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">41 U.S.C. 6707(c)</xref> applies
(see <xref href="22.1008-2.dita#FAR_22_1008_2"
                              base="i1096823"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1008-2</xref>, <xref href="22.1010.dita#FAR_22_1010"
                              base="i1096936"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1010</xref> and <xref href="22.1002-2.dita#FAR_22_1002_2"
                              base="i1096369"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1002-2</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e87">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Determine
the wage rate that would be paid each class if employed by the agency
and subject to the wage provisions of <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5341&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">5 U.S.C. 5341</xref> and/or
5332 (see <xref href="22.1016.dita#FAR_22_1016"
                              base="i1097007"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.1016</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1422e98">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> If the
contracting officer has questions regarding the procedures for obtaining
a wage determination, or questions regarding the selection of a
wage determination, the contracting officer should request assistance
from the agency labor advisor.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
