<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_1905" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.1905</ph> Enforcement of Executive
Order Minimum Wage Requirements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1485e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Authority.</p>
               <ol id="d1485e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Section
5 of the E.O. grants the authority for investigating potential violations
of, and obtaining compliance with, the E.O. to the Secretary of
Labor. The Secretary of Labor, in promulgating the implementing
regulations required by Section 4 of the E.O., has assigned this
authority to the Administrator. Contracting agencies do not have
authority to conduct compliance investigations under 29 CFR part 10 or part
23 as implemented in this subpart. This does not limit the
contracting officer’s authority to otherwise enforce the terms and
conditions of the contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Contracting
officers shall withhold payment at the direction of the Administrator.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The contracting
officer shall withhold payment, without a request from the Administrator,
if the contractor fails to comply with the requirements in paragraph
(e)(2) of <xref href="52.222-55.dita#FAR_52_222_55"
                              base="i1056818"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.222-55</xref>, Minimum Wages for Contractor
Workers Under Executive Order 14026 to furnish payroll records,
until such time as the noncompliance is corrected.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e34">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Complaints.</p>
               <ol id="d1485e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e40">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Complaints
may be filed with the contracting officer or the Administrator by
any person, entity, or organization that believes a violation of
this subpart has occurred.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The identity
of any individual who makes a written or oral statement as a complaint
or in the course of an investigation, as well as portions of the
statement which would reveal the individual’s identity, shall not
be disclosed in any manner to anyone other than Federal officials
without the prior consent of the individual, unless otherwise authorized by
law.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e50">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Upon receipt
of a complaint, or if notified that the Administrator has received
a complaint, the contracting officer shall report the following
information, within 14 days, if available without conducting an
investigation, to the Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division,
Office of Government Contracts, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Room S3006,
Washington, D.C. 20210.</p>
                     <ol id="d1485e93" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e56">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The complaint or description of
the alleged violation;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e61">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Available
statements by the worker, contractor, or any other person regarding
the alleged violation;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e66">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              Evidence that clause <xref href="52.222-55.dita#FAR_52_222_55"
                                    base="i1056818"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.222-55</xref>, Minimum Wages
for Contractor Workers Under Executive Order 14026, (or its predecessor
for complaints under 29 CFR part 10) was included in the contract;
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e74">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Information
concerning known settlement negotiations between the parties, if
applicable; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e79">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> Any other
relevant facts known to the contracting officer or other information
requested by the Wage and Hour Division.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e84">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Investigations.
Complaints will be investigated by the Administrator, if warranted,
in accordance with the procedures in 29 CFR part 23.430.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e89">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Remedies
and sanctions–</p>
               <ol id="d1485e164" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e95">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Unpaid wages. When the Administrator’s
investigation reveals that a contractor has failed to pay the applicable
E.O. minimum wage, the Administrator will notify the contractor
and the contracting agency of the unpaid wage violation, and request
that the contractor remedy the violation. If the contractor does
not remedy the violation, the Administrator may direct withholding
of payments due on the contract or any other contract between the
contractor and the Federal Government. Upon final decision and direction
of the Administrator, the contracting agency shall transfer the
withheld funds to the Department of Labor for disbursement in accordance
with the procedures at <xref href="22.406-9.dita#FAR_22_406_9"
                              base="i1098080"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.406-9</xref>(c).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e103">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Antiretaliation</i>.
When a contractor has been found to have violated paragraph (i)
of clause <xref href="52.222-55.dita#FAR_52_222_55"
                              base="i1056818"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.222-55</xref>, Minimum Wages
for Contractor Workers Under Executive Order 14026, the Administrator
may provide for relief to the worker in accordance with 29 CFR 23.440.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e113">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Debarment.</p>
                     <ol id="d1485e198" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e119">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              The Department of Labor
may initiate debarment proceedings under 29 CFR 23.520 whenever a
contractor is found to have disregarded its obligations under 29
CFR part 23.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e124">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Contracting
officers shall consider notifying the agency suspending and debarring
official in accordance with agency procedures when a contractor
commits significant violations of contract terms and conditions
related to this subpart.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1507e129">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Retroactive
inclusion of contract clause. If a contracting agency fails to include
the contract clause in a contract to which E.O. 14026 applies, the
contracting agency, on its own initiative or within 15 calendar
days of notification by an authorized representative of the Department
of Labor, shall incorporate the contract clause in the contract
retroactive to commencement of performance under the contract through
the exercise of any and all authority that may be needed (including,
where necessary, its authority to negotiate or amend, its authority
to pay any necessary additional costs, and its authority under any
contract provision authorizing changes, cancellation and termination).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
