<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_404_6" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.404-6</ph> Modifications of wage
determinations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1303e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> General.</p>
               <ol id="d1303e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Department
of Labor may modify a wage determination to make it current by specifying
only the items being changed or by reissuing the entire determination
with changes incorporated.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> All project
wage determination modifications expire on the same day as the original
determination. The need to include a modification of a project wage
determination for the primary site of the work in a solicitation
is determined by the time of receipt of the modification by the
contracting agency. Therefore, the contracting agency must annotate the
modification of the project wage determination with the date and
time immediately upon receipt.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The need
for inclusion of the modification of a general wage determination
for the primary site of the work in a solicitation is determined
by the date the modified wage determination is published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                        ,
or by the date the agency receives actual written notice of the
modification from the Department of Labor, whichever occurs first.
(Note the distinction between receipt by the agency (modification
is effective) and receipt by the contracting officer, which may
occur later.) During the course of the solicitation, the contracting
officer shall monitor the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website
to determine whether the applicable wage determination has been revised.
Revisions published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website
or otherwise communicated to the contracting officer within the
timeframes prescribed at <xref href="#FAR_22_404_6"
                              base="i1097832"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.404-6</xref>(b) and (c) are
applicable and must be included in the resulting contract. Monitoring
can be accomplished by use of the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         website’s
"Alert Service".</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e46">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The following
applies when contracting by sealed bidding:</p>
               <ol id="d1303e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e52">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A written
action modifying a wage determination shall be effective if:</p>
                     <ol id="d1303e75" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e58">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> It
is received by the contracting agency, or is published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>, 10
or more calendar days before the date of bid opening; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e66">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> It is
received by the contracting agency, or is published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                              ,
less than 10 calendar days before the date of bid opening, unless
the contracting officer finds that there is not reasonable time
available before bid opening to notify the prospective bidders.
(If the contracting officer finds that there is not reasonable time
to notify bidders, a written report of the finding shall be placed
in the contract file and shall be made available to the Department
of Labor upon request.)</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e74">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> All written
actions modifying wage determinations received by the contracting
agency after bid opening, or modifications to general wage determinations
published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         after
bid opening, shall not be effective and shall not be included in
the solicitation (but see paragraph (b)(6) of this subsection).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e82">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> If an
effective modification of the wage determination for the primary
site of the work is received by the contracting officer before bid
opening, the contracting officer shall postpone the bid opening,
if necessary, to allow a reasonable time to amend the solicitation
to incorporate the modification and permit bidders to amend their
bids. If the modification does not change the wage rates and would
not warrant amended bids, the contracting officer shall amend the
solicitation to include the number and date of the modification.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e87">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> If an
effective modification of the wage determination for the primary
site of the work is received by the contracting officer after bid
opening, but before award, the contracting officer shall follow
the procedures in <xref href="22.404-5.dita#FAR_22_404_5"
                              base="i1097810"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.404-5</xref>(b)(2)(i)
or (ii).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e95">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> If an
effective modification is received by the contracting officer after
award, the contracting officer shall modify the contract to incorporate
the wage modification retroactive to the date of award and equitably
adjust the contract price for any increased or decreased cost of
performance resulting from any changed wage rates. If the modification
does not change any wage rates and would not warrant contract price
adjustment, the contracting officer shall modify the contract to
include the number and date of the modification.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e100">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> If an
award is not made within 90 days after bid opening, any modification
to a general wage determination which is published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         before
award, shall be effective for any resultant contract unless an extension
of the 90-day period is obtained from the Administrator, Wage and
Hour Division. An agency head may request such an extension from
the Administrator. The request must be supported by a written finding,
which shall include a brief statement of factual support, that the
extension is necessary and proper in the public interest to prevent injustice,
undue hardship, or to avoid serious impairment in the conduct of
Government business. The contracting officer shall follow the procedures
in <xref href="22.404-5.dita#FAR_22_404_5"
                              base="i1097810"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.404-5</xref>(b)(2).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e111">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The following
applies when contracting by negotiation:</p>
               <ol id="d1303e159" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e117">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> All written
actions modifying wage determinations received by the contracting
agency before contract award, or modifications to general wage determinations
published on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                         before
award, shall be effective.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e125">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If an
effective wage modification is received by the contracting officer
before award, the contracting officer shall follow the procedures
in <xref href="22.404-5.dita#FAR_22_404_5"
                              base="i1097810"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.404-5</xref>(c)(3) or (4).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e133">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> If an
effective wage modification is received by the contracting officer
after award, the contracting officer shall follow the procedures
in <xref href="#FAR_22_404_6"
                              base="i1097832"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">22.404-6</xref>(b)(5).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e141">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The following
applies when modifying a contract to exercise an option to extend
the term of a contract:</p>
               <ol id="d1303e204" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e147">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A modified wage determination
is effective if-</p>
                     <ol id="d1303e214" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e153">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The contracting agency receives
a written action from the Department of Labor prior to exercise
of the option, or within 45 days after submission of a wage determination
request (<xref href="22.404-3.dita#FAR_22_404_3"
                                    base="i1097787"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">22.404-3</xref>(c)), whichever
is later; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e161">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The Department
of Labor publishes the modification to a general wage determination
on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                               before
exercise of the option.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1339e169">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If the
contracting officer receives an effective modified wage determination
either before or after execution of the contract modification to
exercise the option, the contracting officer must modify the contract
to incorporate the modified wage determination, and any changed
wage rates, effective as of the date that the option to extend was
effective.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
