<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_22_404_3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">22.404-3</ph> Procedures for requesting
wage determinations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1300e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> General wage determinations. If
there is a general wage determination on the Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>
                   website
applicable to the project, the agency may use it without notifying
the Department of Labor. When necessary, a request for a general
wage determination may be made by submitting <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/request-wage-determination-and-response-request"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">Standard Form (SF) 308</xref>,
Request for Determination and Response to Request, to the Administrator,
Wage and Hour Division, Attention: Branch of Construction Contract
Wage Determinations, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC
20210.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Project
wage determinations. If a general wage determination is not available
on Wage Determinations at <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">SAM.gov</i>, a
contracting agency shall submit requests for project wage determinations
on <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/request-wage-determination-and-response-request"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 308</xref> to the Department
of Labor. The requests shall include the following information:</p>
               <ol id="d1300e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e33">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
location, including the county (or other civil subdivision) and
State in which the proposed project is located.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The name
of the project and a sufficiently detailed description of the work
to indicate the types of construction involved (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> building,
heavy, highway, residential, or other type).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e46">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Any available
pertinent wage payment information, unless wage patterns in the
area are clearly established.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e51">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The estimated
cost of each project.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e56">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> All the
classifications of laborers and mechanics likely to be employed.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e61">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Time
for submission of requests</i>.</p>
               <ol id="d1300e101" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e69">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The time required
by the Department of Labor for processing requests for project wage
determinations varies according to the facts and circumstances in
each case. An agency should expect the processing to take at least
30 days. Accordingly, agencies should submit requests for project
wage determinations for the primary site of the work to the Department
of Labor at least 45 days (60 days if possible) before issuing the
solicitation or exercising an option to extend the term of a contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e74">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Agencies
should promptly submit to the Department of Labor an offeror’s request
for a project wage determination for a secondary site of the work.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1336e79">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Review
of wage determinations</i>. Immediately upon receipt, the contracting
agency shall examine the wage determination and inform the Department
of Labor of any changes necessary or appropriate to correct errors.
Private parties requesting changes should be advised to submit their
requests to the Department of Labor.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
