<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_23_303" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">23.303</ph> 
          Notice of radioactive materials.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1522e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1544e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        href="52.223-7.dita#FAR_52_223_7"
                        base="FAR-52.223-7"
                        xtrc="52.223-7"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.223-7</xref>, Notice of Radioactive Materials, requires the contractor to notify the contracting officer prior to delivery of radioactive material.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1544e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Upon receipt of the notice, the contracting officer shall notify receiving activities so that appropriate safeguards can be taken.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1549e22">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The clause permits the contracting officer to waive the notification if the contractor states that the notification on prior deliveries is still current. The contracting officer may waive the notice only after consultation with cognizant technical representatives.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1549e25">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The contracting officer is required to specify in the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        href="52.223-7.dita#FAR_52_223_7"
                        base="FAR-52.223-7"
                        xtrc="52.223-7"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.223-7</xref>, the number of days in advance of delivery that the contractor will provide notification. The determination of the number of days should be done in coordination with the installation/facility radiation protection officer (RPO). The RPO is responsible for ensuring the proper license, authorization, or permit is obtained prior to receipt of the radioactive material.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
