<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_25_202" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">25.202</ph> Exceptions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1602e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> When one of the following exceptions
applies, the contracting officer may allow the contractor to acquire
foreign construction materials without regard to the restrictions
of the Buy American statute:</p>
               <ol id="d1602e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Impracticable
or inconsistent with public interest</i>. The head of the agency
may determine that application of the restrictions of the Buy American
statute to a particular construction material would be impracticable
or would be inconsistent with the public interest. The public interest
exception applies when an agency has an agreement with a foreign
government that provides a blanket exception to the Buy American
statute.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1625e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Nonavailability</i>. The head of the
                        contracting activity may determine that a particular construction material
                        is not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient
                        and reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality.
                        The determinations of nonavailability of the articles listed at <xref href="25.104.dita#FAR_25_104"
                              base="i1093582"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.104</xref>(a) and
                        the procedures at <xref href="25.103.dita#FAR_25_103"
                              base="i1093528"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.103</xref>(b)(1)
                        also apply if any of those articles are acquired as construction materials.
                           A determination is not
                           required before January 1, 2030, if there is an offer for a foreign
                           construction material that exceeds 55 percent domestic content (see <xref href="25.204.dita#FAR_25_204"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.204</xref>(b)(1)(ii) and <xref href="25.204.dita#FAR_25_204"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.204</xref>(b)(2)(ii)).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unreasonable
cost</i>. The contracting officer concludes that the cost of domestic
construction material is unreasonable in accordance with <xref href="25.204.dita#FAR_25_204"
                              base="i1093105"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">25.204</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e46">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Information
technology that is a commercial product.</i> The restriction on
purchasing foreign construction material does not apply to the acquisition
of information technology that is a commercial product, when using
Fiscal Year 2004 or subsequent fiscal year funds (section 535(a)
of Division F, Title V, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004, and
similar sections in subsequent appropriations acts).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e53">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Determination
and findings</i>. When a determination is made for any of the reasons
stated in this section that certain foreign construction materials
may be used, the contracting officer must list the excepted materials
in the contract. The agency must make the findings justifying the
exception available for public inspection.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1624e60">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acquisitions under trade
                  agreements</i>. For construction contracts with an estimated
                  acquisition value of $6,708,000
                  or more, see <xref href="Subpart_25.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_25_4"
                        base="i1092400"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  25.4</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
