<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_28_106_6" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">28.106-6</ph> Furnishing information.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1803e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The surety on the bond, upon its
written request, may be furnished information on the progress of
the work, payments, and the estimated percentage of completion,
concerning the contract for which the bond was furnished.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> When a
payment bond has been provided, the contracting officer shall, upon
request, furnish the name and address of the surety or sureties
to any subcontractor or supplier who has furnished or been requested
to furnish labor or material for the contract. In addition, general
information concerning the work progress, payments, and the estimated
percentage of completion may be furnished to persons who have provided
labor or materials and have not been paid.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> When a
payment bond has been provided for a contract, the head of the agency
or designee shall furnish a certified copy of the bond and the contract
for which it was given to any person who makes a request therefor
and who furnishes an affidavit that the requestor has supplied labor
or materials for such work and payment therefor has not been made
or that the requestor is being sued on such bond. The person who
makes the request shall be required to pay such costs of preparation
as determined by the head of the agency or designee to be reasonable
and appropriate (see <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section3133&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">40 U.S.C. 3133</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Section 806(a)(2) of Public Law 102-190, as amended by sections 2091 and 8105 of Public Law 103-355 (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4601&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">10 U.S.C. 4601 note</xref> prec.), requires that the Federal Government provide information to subcontractors on payment bonds under contracts for other than commercial products or commercial services as defined in <xref href="Subpart_2.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_2_1"
                        base="i1125357"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  2.1</xref>. Upon the written or oral request of a subcontractor/supplier, or prospective subcontractor/supplier, under a contract with respect to which a payment bond has been furnished pursuant to the Bonds statute, the contracting officer shall promptly provide to the requester, either orally or in writing, as appropriate, any of the following:</p>
               <ol id="d1803e59" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e40">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Name
and address of the surety or sureties on the payment bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Penal amount
of the payment bond.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1826e50">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Copy of
the payment bond. The contracting officer may impose reasonable
fees to cover the cost of copying and providing a copy of the payment
bond.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
