<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_29_201" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">29.201</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1846e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1868e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Federal excise taxes are levied	on the sale or use of particular supplies or services. Subtitle	D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, Miscellaneous Excise Taxes, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section4041&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">26 U.S.C.4041</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">etseq</i>.,	and its implementing regulations, 26 CFR parts 40 through 299, cover	miscellaneous federal excise tax requirements. Questions arising	in this area should be directed to the agency-designated counsel.	The most common excise taxes are-</p>
               <ol id="d1846e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1868e22">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Manufacturers’	excise taxes imposed on certain motor-vehicle articles, tires and	inner tubes, gasoline, lubricating oils, coal, fishing equipment,	firearms, shells, and cartridges sold by manufacturers, producers,	or importers; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1868e27">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Special-fuels	excise taxes imposed at the retail level on diesel fuel and special	motor fuels.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1868e32">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Sometimes	the law exempts the Federal Government from these taxes. Contracting	officers should solicit prices on a tax-exclusive basis when it	is known that the Government is exempt from these taxes, and on	a tax-inclusive basis when no exemption exists.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1868e37">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Executive	agencies shall take maximum advantage of available Federal excise	tax exemptions.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
