<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <concept id="FAR_3_801"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">3.801</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As used in this subpart-</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_3.801"
               xtrc="d138e18"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Agency</i> means "<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">executive agency"</i> as defined in <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                  base="i1125359"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <i outputclass="Term"
               xtrf="_3.801"
               xtrc="d138e30"
               class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Covered Federal action</i> means any of the following actions:<ol id="d139e28" class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <ol id="d139e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d141e28" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Awarding any Federal contract.</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d141e33" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Making any Federal grant.</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d141e38" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Making any Federal loan.</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d141e43" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Entering into any cooperative agreement.</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p id="d141e48" class="- topic/p ">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Extending, continuing, renewing, amending, or modifying any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.</p>
                        <p id="d141e52" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term"
                              xtrf="_3.801"
                              xtrc="d138e85"
                              class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Indian tribe</i> and "tribal organization" have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=114A3287C7B3359E597506A31FC855B3"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">25 U.S.C.450b</xref>) and include Alaskan Natives.</p>
                        <p id="d141e59" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term"
                              xtrf="_3.801"
                              xtrc="d138e94"
                              class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Influencing or attempting to influence</i> means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.</p>
                        <p id="d141e63" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term"
                              xtrf="_3.801"
                              xtrc="d138e100"
                              class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Local government</i> means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.</p>
                        <p id="d141e67" class="- topic/p ">
                           <i outputclass="Term"
                              xtrf="_3.801"
                              xtrc="d138e106"
                              class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Officer or employee of an agency</i> includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:<ol id="d139e95" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d141e73" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under Title 5, United States Code, including a position under a temporary appointment.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d141e78" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A member of the uniformed services, as defined in subsection 101(3), Title 37, United States Code.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d141e83" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> A special Government employee, as defined in section 202, Title 18, United States Code.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p id="d141e88" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, Title 5, United States Code, appendix 2.</p>
                                 <p id="d141e92" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i outputclass="Term"
                                       xtrf="_3.801"
                                       xtrc="d138e148"
                                       class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Person</i> means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization eligible to receive Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans from an agency, but only with respect to expenditures by such tribe or organization that are made for purposes specified in paragraph <xref href="3.802.dita#FAR_3_802"
                                          base="i1124072"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">3.802</xref>(a) and are permitted by other Federal law.</p>
                                 <p id="d141e99" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i outputclass="Term"
                                       xtrf="_3.801"
                                       xtrc="d138e157"
                                       class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reasonable compensation</i> means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.</p>
                                 <p id="d141e103" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i outputclass="Term"
                                       xtrf="_3.801"
                                       xtrc="d138e163"
                                       class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reasonable payment</i> means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.</p>
                                 <p id="d141e107" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i outputclass="Term"
                                       xtrf="_3.801"
                                       xtrc="d138e169"
                                       class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Recipient</i> includes the contractor and all subcontractors. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization eligible to receive Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans from an agency, but only with respect to expenditures by such tribe or organization that are made for purposes specified in paragraph <xref href="3.802.dita#FAR_3_802"
                                          base="i1124072"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">3.802</xref>(a) and are permitted by other Federal law.</p>
                                 <p id="d141e114" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i outputclass="Term"
                                       xtrf="_3.801"
                                       xtrc="d138e179"
                                       class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Regularly employed</i> means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within 1 year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within 1 year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.</p>
                                 <p id="d141e118" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i outputclass="Term"
                                       xtrf="_3.801"
                                       xtrc="d138e185"
                                       class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">State</i> means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, an outlying area of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
