<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_31_205_26" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">31.205-26</ph> Material costs.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d1956e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Material costs include the costs
of such items as raw materials, parts, subassemblies, components,
and manufacturing supplies, whether purchased or manufactured by
the contractor, and may include such collateral items as inbound
transportation and in-transit insurance. In computing material costs,
the contractor shall consider reasonable overruns, spoilage, or
defective work (unless otherwise provided in any contract provision
relating to inspecting and correcting defective work).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The contractor
shall-</p>
               <ol id="d1956e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Adjust the costs of material for
income and other credits, including available trade discounts, refunds,
rebates, allowances, and cash discounts, and credits for scrap,
salvage, and material returned to vendors; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Credit
such income and other credits either directly to the cost of the
material or allocate such income and other credits as a credit to
indirect costs. When the contractor can demonstrate that failure
to take cash discounts was reasonable, the contractor does not need
to credit lost discounts.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e31">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Reasonable
adjustments arising from differences between periodic physical inventories
and book inventories may be included in arriving at costs; provided
such adjustments relate to the period of contract performance.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> When materials
are purchased specifically for and are identifiable solely with
performance under a contract, the actual purchase cost of those
materials should be charged to the contract. If material is issued
from stores, any generally recognized method of pricing such material
is acceptable if that method is consistently applied and the results
are equitable.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e41">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Allowance
for all materials, supplies and services that are sold or transferred
between any divisions, subdivisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates
of the contractor under a common control shall be on the basis of
cost incurred in accordance with this subpart. However, allowance
may be at price when-</p>
               <ol id="d1956e80" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e47">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> It is the established practice
of the transferring organization to price interorganizational transfers
at other than cost for commercial work of the contractor or any
division, subsidiary or affiliate of the contractor under a common
control; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e52">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The item
being transferred qualifies for an exception under <xref href="15.403-1.dita#FAR_15_403_1"
                              base="i1105936"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.403-1</xref>(b) and the contracting
officer has not determined the price to be unreasonable.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e60">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> When a commercial product or commercial service under
paragraph (e) of this section
is sold or transferred at a price based on a catalog or market
price, the contractor—</p>
               <ol id="d1956e114" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e66">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Should adjust the price to reflect
the quantities being acquired; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d1981e71">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> May adjust
the price to reflect the actual cost of any modifications necessary
because of contract requirements.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
