<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_32_206" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">32.206</ph> Solicitation provisions
and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2044e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The contract shall contain the
paragraph entitled "Payment" of the clause at <xref href="52.212-4.dita#FAR_52_212_4"
                        base="i1060971"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.212-4</xref>, Contract Terms
and Conditions-Commercial
Products and Commercial Services. If the contract will provide
for contract financing, the contracting officer shall construct
a solicitation provision and contract clause. This solicitation
provision shall be constructed in accordance with <xref href="32.204.dita#FAR_32_204"
                        base="i1083235"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.204</xref> or <xref href="32.205.dita#FAR_32_205"
                        base="i1083244"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.205</xref>. If the procedure
at <xref href="32.205.dita#FAR_32_205"
                        base="i1083244"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.205</xref> is used, the solicitation
provision at <xref href="52.232-31.dita#FAR_52_232_31"
                        base="i1050574"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.232-31</xref>,
invitation to Propose Financing Terms, shall be included. The contract
clause shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements
of this subpart and any agency regulations.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e30">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Each contract
financing clause shall include:</p>
               <ol id="d2044e48" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A description
of the-</p>
                     <ol id="d2044e58" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e42">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Computation of the financing payment
amounts (see paragraph (c) of this section);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e47">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Specific
conditions of contractor entitlement to those financing payments
(see paragraph (c) of this section);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e52">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Liquidation
of those financing payments by delivery payments (see paragraph
(e) of this section);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e57">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Security
the contractor will provide for financing payments and any terms
or conditions specifically applicable thereto (see <xref href="32.202-4.dita#FAR_32_202_4"
                                    base="i1083181"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">32.202-4</xref>); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e65">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> Frequency,
form, and any additional content of the contractor’s request for
financing payment (in addition to the requirements of the clause
at <xref href="52.232-29.dita#FAR_52_232_29"
                                    base="i1050508"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-29</xref>, Terms for Financing
of Purchases of Commercial
Products and Commercial Services; and</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e73">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Unless
agency regulations authorize alterations, the unaltered text of
the clause at <xref href="52.232-29.dita#FAR_52_232_29"
                              base="i1050508"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.232-29</xref>,
Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and
Commercial Services.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e81">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Computation
of amounts, and contractor entitlement provisions.</p>
               <ol id="d2044e135" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e87">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Contracts
shall provide that delivery payments shall be made only for completed
supplies and services accepted by the Government in accordance with
the terms of the contract. Contracts may provide for commercial
advance and commercial interim payments based upon a wide variety
of bases, including (but not limited to) achievement or occurrence
of specified events, the passage of time, or specified times prior
to the delivery date(s). The basis for payment must be objectively
determinable. The clause written by the contracting officer shall
specify, to the extent access is necessary, the information and/or
facilities to which the Government shall have access for the purpose
of verifying the contractor’s entitlement to payment of contract
financing.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e92">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If the
contract is awarded using the offeror-proposed procedure at <xref href="32.205.dita#FAR_32_205"
                              base="i1083244"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">32.205</xref>, the clause constructed
by the contracting officer under paragraph (b)(1) of this section
shall contain the following:</p>
                     <ol id="d2044e157" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e101">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> A statement
that the offeror’s proposed listing of earliest times and greatest
amounts of projected financing payments submitted in accordance
with paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at <xref href="52.232-31.dita#FAR_52_232_31"
                                    base="i1050574"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-31</xref>, invitation
to Propose Financing Terms, is incorporated into the contract, and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e109">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> A statement
that financing payments shall be made in the lesser amount and on
the later of the date due in accordance with the financing terms
of the contract, or in the amount and on the date projected in the
listing of earliest times and greatest amounts incorporated in the
contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e114">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> If the
security accepted by the contracting officer is the contractor’s
financial condition, the contracting officer shall incorporate in
the clause constructed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section the
following-</p>
                     <ol id="d2044e190" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e120">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> A statement that the contractor’s
financial condition has been accepted as adequate security for commercial financing
payments; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e125">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> A statement
that the contracting officer may exercise the Government’s rights
to require other security under paragraph (c), Security for Government
Financing, of the clause at <xref href="52.232-29.dita#FAR_52_232_29"
                                    base="i1050508"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.232-29</xref>,
Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and
Commercial Services, in the event the contractor’s financial
condition changes and is found not to be adequate security.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e133">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Instructions
for multiple appropriations.</i> If contract financing is to be
computed for the contract as a whole, and if there is more than
one appropriation account (or subaccount) funding payments under
the contract, the contracting officer shall include, in the contract,
instructions for distribution of financing payments to the respective
funds accounts. Distribution instructions and contract liquidation
instructions must be mutually consistent.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e140">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Liquidation.</i> Liquidation
of contract financing payments shall be on the same basis as the
computation of contract financing payments; that is, financing payments
computed on a whole contract basis shall be liquidated on a whole
contract basis; and a payment computed on a line item basis shall
be liquidated against that line item. If liquidation is on a whole contract
basis, the contracting officer shall use a uniform liquidation percentage
as the liquidation method, unless the contracting officer obtains
the concurrence of the cognizant payment office that the proposed
liquidation provisions can be executed by that office, or unless
agency regulations provide alternative liquidation methods.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e147">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prompt
payment for commercial purchase payments.</i> The provisions of <xref href="Subpart_32.9.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_9"
                        base="i1081111"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.9</xref>, Prompt
Payment, apply to contract financing and invoice payments for commercial
purchases in the same manner they apply to other than commercial purchases.
The contracting officer is responsible for including in the contract
all the information necessary to implement prompt payment. In particular,
contracting officers must be careful to clearly differentiate in
the contract between contract financing and invoice payments and
between items having different prompt payment times.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e157">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Installment
payment financing for commercial
products and commercial services.</i> Contracting officers
may insert the clause at <xref href="52.232-30.dita#FAR_52_232_30"
                        base="i1050540"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.232-30</xref>,
Installment Payments for Commercial
Products and Commercial Services, in solicitations and contracts
in lieu of constructing a specific clause in accordance with paragraphs
(b) through (e) of this section, if the contract action qualifies
under the criteria at <xref href="32.202-1.dita#FAR_32_202_1"
                        base="i1083117"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.202-1</xref>(b)
and installment payments for the item are either customary or are
authorized in accordance with agency procedures.</p>
               <ol id="d2044e274" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e171">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Description.</i> Installment
payment financing is payment by the Government to a contractor of
a fixed number of equal interim financing payments prior to delivery
and acceptance of a contract item. The installment payment arrangement
is designed to reduce administrative costs. However, if a contract
will have a large number of deliveries, the administrative costs
may increase to the point where installment payments are not in
the best interests of the Government.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e178">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Authorized
types of installment payment financing and rates.</i> Installment
payments may be made using the clause at <xref href="52.232-30.dita#FAR_52_232_30"
                              base="i1050540"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.232-30</xref>, Installment
Payments for Commercial
Products and Commercial Services, either at the 70 percent
financing rate cited in the clause or at a lower rate in accordance
with agency procedures.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e188">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Calculating
the amount of installment financing payments.</i> The contracting
officer shall identify in the contract schedule those items for
which installment payment financing is authorized. Monthly installment
payment amounts are to be calculated by the contractor pursuant
to the instructions in the contract clause only for items authorized
to receive installment payment financing.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2069e195">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Liquidating
installment payments.</i> If installment payments have been made
for an item, the amount paid to the contractor upon acceptance of
the item by the Government shall be reduced by the amount of installment
payments made for the item. The contractor’s request for final payment
for each item is required to show this calculation.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
