<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_32_202_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">32.202-4</ph> Security for Government
financing.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2040e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Policy.</p>
               <ol id="d2040e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3805&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">10 U.S.C. 3805</xref>
                           
                         and <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section4505&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">41 U.S.C.4505</xref> require the Government to obtain adequate security for Government financing. The contracting officer shall specify in the solicitation the type of security the Government will accept. If the Government is willing to accept more than one form of security, the offeror shall be required to specify the form of security it will provide. If acceptable to the contracting officer, the resulting contract shall specify the security (see <xref href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                              base="i1083258"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">32.206</xref>(b)(1)(iv)).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Subject
to agency regulations, the contracting officer may determine the
offeror’s financial condition to be adequate security, provided
the offeror agrees to provide additional security should that financial
condition become inadequate as security (see paragraph (c) of the
clause at <xref href="52.232-29.dita#FAR_52_232_29"
                              base="i1050508"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.232-29</xref>, Terms for Financing
of Purchases of Commercial
Products and Commercial Services). Assessment of the contractor’s
financial condition shall consider both net worth and liquidity.
If the contracting officer finds the offeror’s financial condition
is not adequate security, the contracting officer shall require
other adequate security. Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this subsection
list other (but not all) forms of security that the contracting
officer may find acceptable.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The value
of the security must be at least equal to the maximum unliquidated
amount of contract financing payments to be made to the contractor.
The value of security may be adjusted periodically during contract
performance, as long as it is always equal to or greater than the
amount of unliquidated financing.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Paramount
lien.</p>
               <ol id="d2040e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The statutes cited in <xref href="32.201.dita#FAR_32_201"
                              base="i1083111"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">32.201</xref> provide that if
the Government’s security is in the form of a lien, such lien is
paramount to all other liens and is effective immediately upon the
first payment, without filing, notice, or other action by the United
States.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e56">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> When the
Government’s security is in the form of a lien, the contract shall
specify what the lien is upon, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> the work in process,
the contractor’s plant, or the contractor’s inventory. Contracting
officers may be flexible in the choice of assets. The contract must
also give the Government a right to verify the existence and value
of the assets.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e64">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Provision
of Government financing shall be conditioned upon a contractor certification
that the assets subject to the lien are free from any prior encumbrances.
Prior liens may result from such things as capital equipment loans,
installment purchases, working capital loans, various lines of credit,
and revolving credit arrangements.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e69">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Other
assets as security.</i> Contracting officers may consider the guidance
at <xref href="28.203.dita#FAR_28_203"
                        base="i1088221"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">28.203</xref> and <xref href="28.204.dita#FAR_28_204"
                        base="i1088301"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">28.204</xref> in determining
which types of assets may be acceptable as security. For the purpose
of applying the guidance in <xref href="Part_28.dita#FAR_Part_28"
                        base="i1088954"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  28</xref> to
this subsection, the term "surety" and/or "individual surety" should
be interpreted to mean "offeror" and/or "contractor."</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e85">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Other
forms of security.</i> Other acceptable forms of security include-</p>
               <ol id="d2040e147" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e93">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> An
irrevocable letter of credit from a federally insured financial
institution;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e98">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A bond
from a surety, acceptable in accordance with <xref href="Part_28.dita#FAR_Part_28"
                              base="i1088954"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  28</xref> (note that
the bond must guarantee repayment of the unliquidated contract financing);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e106">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> A guarantee
of repayment from a person or corporation of demonstrated liquid
net worth, connected by significant ownership to the contractor;
or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e111">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Titleto
identified contractor assets of adequate worth.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2065e116">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Management
of risk and security.</i> In establishing contract financing terms,
the contracting officer must be aware of certain risks. For example,
very high amounts of financing early in the contract (front-end
loading) may unduly increase the risk to the Government. The security
and the amounts and timing of financing payments must be analyzed
as a whole to determine whether the arrangement will be in the best
interest of the Government.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
