<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_32_202_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">32.202-1</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2037e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of financing in contracts.</i> It
is the responsibility of the contractor to provide all resources
needed for performance of the contract. Thus, for purchases of commercial products or
commercial services, financing of the contract is normally the
contractor’s responsibility. However, in some markets the provision
of financing by the buyer is a commercial practice. In these circumstances,
the contracting officer may include appropriate financing terms
in contracts for commercial purchases when doing so will be in the
best interest of the Government.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Authorization.</i> Commercial
interim payments and commercial advance payments may be made under
the following circumstances-</p>
               <ol id="d2037e38" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e25">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The contract
item financed is a commercial supply or service;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The contract
price exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e35">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The contracting
officer determines that it is appropriate or customary in the commercial
marketplace to make financing payments for the item;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e40">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Authorizing
this form of contract financing is in the best interest of the Government
(see paragraph (e) of this sub-section);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Adequate
security is obtained (see <xref href="32.202-4.dita#FAR_32_202_4"
                              base="i1083181"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">32.202-4</xref>);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e53">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Prior to
any performance of work under the contract, the aggregate of commercial
advance payments shall not exceed 15 percent of the contract price;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e58">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> The contract
is awarded on the basis of competitive procedures or, if only one
offer is solicited, adequate consideration is obtained (based on
the time value of the additional financing to be provided) if the
financing is expected to be substantially more advantageous to the
offeror than the offeror’s normal method of customer financing;
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph> The contracting
officer obtains concurrence from the payment office concerning liquidation
provisions when required by <xref href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                              base="i1083258"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">32.206</xref>(e).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e71">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Difference
from other than commercial financing.</i> Government
financing of commercial purchases under this subpart is expected
to be different from that used for other than commercial purchases
under <xref href="Subpart_32.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_1"
                        base="i1083622"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.1</xref> and
its related subparts. While the contracting officer may adapt techniques
and procedures from the other
than commercial subparts for use in implementing commercial
contract financing arrangements, the contracting officer must have
a full understanding of effects of the differing contract environments
and of what is needed to protect the interests of the Government
in commercial contract financing.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e81">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unusual
contract financing.</i> Any contract financing arrangement not in
accord with the requirements of agency regulations or this part
is unusual contract financing and requires advance approval in accordance
with agency procedures. If not otherwise specified, such unusual
contract financing shall be approved by the head of the contracting
activity.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2062e88">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Best
interest of the Government.</i> The statutes cited in <xref href="32.201.dita#FAR_32_201"
                        base="i1083111"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.201</xref> do not allow contract
financing by the Government unless it is in the best interest of
the United States. Agencies may establish standards to determine
whether contract financing is in the best interest of the Government.
These standards may be for certain types of procurements, certain
types of items, or certain dollar levels of procurements.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
