<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_32_504" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">32.504</ph> Subcontracts under prime
contracts providing progress payments.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2109e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Subcontracts may include either
performance-based payments, provided they meet the criteria in <xref href="32.1003.dita#FAR_32_1003"
                        base="i1080969"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.1003</xref>, or progress payments,
provided they meet the criteria in <xref href="Subpart_32.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_5"
                        base="i1082047"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.5</xref> for
customary progress payments, but not both. Subcontracts for commercial
purchases may include commercial
product or commercial service purchase financing terms, provided they
meet the criteria in <xref href="32.202-1.dita#FAR_32_202_1"
                        base="i1083117"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.202-1</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e24">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The contractor’s
requests for progress payments may include the full amount of commercial product or commercial service purchase
financing payments, performance-based payments, or progress payments
to a subcontractor, whether paid or unpaid, provided that unpaid
amounts are limited to amounts determined due and that the contractor
will pay-</p>
               <ol id="d2109e41" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> In accordance with the terms and
conditions of a subcontract or invoice; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e35">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Ordinarily
within 30 days of the submission of the contractor’s progress payment
request to the Government.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e40">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> If the
contractor is considering making unusual progress payments to a
subcontractor, the parties will be guided by the policies in <xref href="32.501-2.dita#FAR_32_501_2"
                        base="i1082080"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.501-2</xref>. If the Government
approves unusual progress payments for the subcontract, the contracting
officer must issue a contract modification to specify the new rate
in paragraph (j)(6) of the clause at <xref href="52.232-16.dita#FAR_52_232_16"
                        base="i1049841"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.232-16</xref>, Progress Payments, in
the prime contract. This will allow the contractor to include the
progress payments to the subcontractor in the cost basis for progress
payments by the Government. This modification is not a deviation
and does not require the clearance prescribed in <xref href="32.502-2.dita#FAR_32_502_2"
                        base="i1082119"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.502-2</xref>(b).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e54">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> The contractor
has a duty to ensure that financing payments to subcontractors conform
to the standards and principles prescribed in paragraph (j) of the
Progress Payments clause in the prime contract. Although the contracting
officer should, to the extent appropriate, review the subcontract
as part of the overall administration of progress payments in the
prime contract, there is no special requirement for contracting
officer review or consent merely because the subcontract includes financing
payments, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. However,
the contracting officer must ensure that the contractor has installed
the necessary management control systems, including internal audit
procedures.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> When financing
payments are in the form of progress payments, the Progress Payments
clause at <xref href="52.232-16.dita#FAR_52_232_16"
                        base="i1049841"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.232-16</xref> requires that
the subcontract include the substance of the Progress Payments clause
in the prime contract, modified to indicate that the contractor,
not the Government, awards the subcontract and administers the progress
payments. The following exceptions apply to wording modifications:</p>
               <ol id="d2109e101" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
subcontract terms on title to property under progress payments shall
provide for vesting of title in the Government, not the contractor,
as in paragraph (d) of the Progress Payments clause in the prime
contract. A reference to the contractor may, however, be substituted
for "Government" in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of the clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e73">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the
subcontract terms on reports and access to records, the contractor
shall not delete the references to "Contracting Officer" and "Government"
in adapting paragraph (g) of the Progress Payments clause in the
contract, but may expand the terms as follows:</p>
                     <ol id="d2109e120" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e79">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The term
"Contracting Officer" may be changed to "Contracting Officer or
Prime Contractor."</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e84">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The term
"the Government" may be changed to "the Government or Prime Contractor."</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e89">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The subcontract
special terms regarding default shall include paragraph (h) of the
Progress Payments clause in the contract through its subdivision
(i). The rest of paragraph (h) is optional.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e94">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> When financing
payments are in the form of performance-based payments, the Performance-Based
Payments clause at <xref href="52.232-32.dita#FAR_52_232_32"
                        base="i1050610"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.232-32</xref> requires
that the subcontract terms include the substance of the Performance-Based
Payments clause, modified to indicate that the contractor, not the
Government, awards the subcontract and administers the performance-based payments,
and include appropriately worded modifications similar to those
noted in paragraph (e) of this section.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2134e102">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph> When financing
payments are in the form of commercial
product or commercial service purchase financing, the subcontract
must include a contract financing clause structured in accordance
with <xref href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                        base="i1083258"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">32.206</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
