<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_4_2304" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">4.2304</ph> 
         Procedures.
      </title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e11">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Identifying applicable FASCSA orders.</i> The applicability of FASCSA orders to a particular acquisition depends on the contracting office's agency, the scope of the FASCSA order, the funding, and whether the requirement involves certain types of information systems (see the definition of FASCSA order at <xref href="4.2301.dita#FAR_4_2301"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.2301</xref>). The contracting officer shall coordinate with the program office or requiring activity to identify the FASCSA order(s) that apply to the acquisition as follows:
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Unless the program office or requiring activity instructs the contracting officer otherwise, FASCSA orders apply as follows: contracts awarded by civilian agencies will be subject to DHS FASCSA orders, and contracts awarded by the Department of Defense will be subject to DoD FASCSA orders. See paragraph (b) of <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders-Prohibition. </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> For acquisitions where the program office or the requiring activity instructs the contracting officer to select specific FASCSA orders, the contracting officer must select “yes” or “no” for each applicable type of FASCSA order ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, “DHS FASCSA Order” “DoD FASCSA Order” or “DNI FASCSA Order”). See paragraph (b)(1) of <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate I. </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e38">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition contracts, multi-agency contracts specific procedures—
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e45">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        Applying FASCSA orders. An agency awarding this type of contract may choose to apply FASCSA orders in accordance with agency policy as follows:
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e52">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Application at the contract level.</i> The agency awarding the basic contract may choose to apply FASCSA orders to the basic contract award. This is the preferred method, especially if small value orders or orders without a request for quotation (RFQ) are expected. Ordering activity contracting officers may use this contract vehicle without taking further steps to identify applicable FASCSA orders in the order. The contracting officer awarding the basic contract would select “yes” for all FASCSA orders ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> “DHS FASCSA Order” “DoD FASCSA Order” and “DNI FASCSA Order”) (see paragraph (b)(1) of <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate I). If the contracting officer becomes aware of a newly issued applicable FASCSA order, then the agency awarding the basic contract shall modify the basic contract to remove any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, prohibited by the newly issued FASCSA order. </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e63">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Application at the order level.</i> The agency awarding the basic contract may choose to apply FASCSA orders at the order level, as implemented by the ordering activity contracting officer.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e71">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Collective FASCSA orders.</i> If a new FASCSA order is issued collectively by the Secretary of Homeland Security, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence, then the contracting officer shall modify the basic contract based upon the requirements of the order, removing any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source (see <xref href="4.2303.dita#FAR_4_2303"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">4.2303</xref>(b)).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e82">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Interagency acquisitions.</i> For an interagency acquisition (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_17.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_17_5"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">17.5</xref>) where the funding agency differs from the awarding agency, the funding agency shall determine the applicable FASCSA orders.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e93">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Inconsistencies.</i> If any inconsistency is identified between the basic contract and the order, then the FASCSA orders identified in the order will take precedence.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e101">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Updating the solicitation or contract for new FASCSA orders.</i> The contracting officer shall update a solicitation or contract if the program office or requiring activity determines it is necessary to:
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e110">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        Amend the solicitation to incorporate FASCSA orders in effect after the date the solicitation was issued but prior to contract award; or
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e116">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        Modify the contract to incorporate FASCSA orders issued after the date of contract award.
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e123">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              Any such modification should take place within a reasonable amount of time, but no later than 6 months from the determination of the program office or requiring activity.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e129">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              If the contract is not modified within the time specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, then the contract file shall be documented providing rationale why the contract could not be modified within this timeframe.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e135">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Agency specific procedures.</i> The contracting officer shall follow agency procedures for implementing FASCSA orders not identified in SAM (see <xref href="4.2303.dita#FAR_4_2303"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.2303</xref>(c)(2)). </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e143">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Disclosures.</i> If an offeror provides a disclosure pursuant to paragraph (e) of <xref href="52.204-29.dita#FAR_52_204_29"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-29</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures, the contracting officer shall engage with the program office or requiring activity to determine whether to pursue a waiver, if available, in accordance with <xref href="4.2305.dita#FAR_4_2305"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">4.2305</xref> and agency procedures or not award to that offeror. For FASCSA orders handled at the order level, the disclosures language is found at paragraph (b)(5) of <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate II. </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e154">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Waiver.</i> An acquisition may be either fully or partially covered by a waiver. Partial waiver coverage occurs when only portions of the products or services being procured or provided by a source are covered by an applicable waiver. If the requiring activity notifies the contracting officer that the acquisition is partially covered by an approved individual waiver or class waiver under 4.2305, then the contracting officer shall work with the program office or requiring activity to identify in the solicitation, RFQ, or order, the covered articles or services produced by or provided by a source that are subject to the waiver (see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-41/section-201-1.304#p-201-1.304(b)"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">41 CFR 201–1.304(b)</xref>).
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d332e165">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reporting.</i> If a contractor provides a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, the contracting officer shall engage with the agency supply chain risk management program in accordance with agency procedures. </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
