<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_4_604" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">4.604</ph> Responsibilities.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d221e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            The Senior Procurement Executive in coordination with the head of the contracting activity is responsible for developing and monitoring a process to ensure timely and accurate reporting of contractual actions to FPDS.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d221e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e20">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                The responsibility for the completion and accuracy of the individual contract action report (CAR) resides with the contracting officer who awarded the contract action. CARs in a draft or error status in FPDS are not considered complete.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e25">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                The CAR must be confirmed for accuracy by the contracting officer prior to release of the contract award. The CAR must then be completed in FPDS within three business days after contract award.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        
								                For any action awarded in accordance with FAR <xref href="6.302-2.dita#FAR_6_302_2"
                              base="i1119539"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">6.302-2</xref> or pursuant to any of the authorities listed at subpart <xref href="Subpart_18.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_18_2"
                              base="i1102241"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">18.2</xref>, the CAR must be completed in FPDS within 30 days after contract award.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> When the contracting officer receives written notification that a contractor has changed its size status in accordance with the clause at <xref href="52.219-28.dita#FAR_52_219_28"
                              base="i1057874"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-28</xref>, Postaward Small Business Program Rerepresentation, the contracting officer shall update the size status in FPDS within 30 days after receipt of contractor’s notification of rerepresentation.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        
								                If after award of a contract, the contracting officer receives written notification of SBA’s final decision on a protest concerning a size determination, the contracting officer shall update FPDS to reflect the final decision.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d223e54">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            The chief acquisition officer of each agency required to report its contract actions must submit to the General Services Administration (GSA), in accordance with FPDS guidance, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an annual certification of whether, and to what degree, agency CAR data for the preceding fiscal year is complete and accurate.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
