<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_40_202_5" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">40.202-5</ph> Exceptions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">The prohibitions in this section do not apply to the following (section 1832 of Pub. L. 118-31, <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section3901&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">41 U.S.C. 3901</xref> note prec.):</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2457e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Wildfire management operations and search and rescue operations exception.</i> The prohibitions in section <xref href="40.202.dita#FAR_40_202"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">40.202</xref> do not apply to an appropriate Federal agency to the extent that an authorized official at the agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines that the procurement or operation is necessary for the purposes of supporting the full range of wildfire management operations or search and rescue operations.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2457e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Intelligence activities exception.</i> The prohibitions of <xref href="40.202.dita#FAR_40_202"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">40.202</xref> do not apply to any activity subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (<xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3091&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">50 U.S.C. 3091</xref> et seq.), any authorized intelligence activities of the United States, or any activity or procurement that supports an authorized intelligence activity.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2457e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Tribal law enforcement or emergency service agency exception.</i> The prohibitions in <xref href="40.202.dita#FAR_40_202"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">40.202</xref> do not apply to Tribal law enforcement or Tribal emergency service agencies to the extent that an authorized official at the agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines that the procurement or operation is necessary for the purposes of supporting the full range of law enforcement operations or search and rescue operations on Indian lands.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
