<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_42_1502" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">42.1502</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2548e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> General. Past performance evaluations
shall be prepared at least annually and at the time the work under
a contract or order is completed. Past performance evaluations are
required for contracts and orders as specified in paragraphs (b)
through (f) of this section, including contracts and orders performed
outside the United States. These evaluations are generally for the
entity, division, or unit that performed the contract or order.
Past performance information shall be entered into CPARS, the Governmentwide
evaluation reporting tool for all past performance reports on contracts
and orders. Instructions for submitting evaluations into CPARS are
available at <xref href="http://www.cpars.gov/"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">http://www.cpars.gov/</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Contracts.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), and (h) of this section,
agencies shall prepare evaluations of contractor performance for
each contract (as defined in FAR <xref href="Part_2.dita#FAR_Part_2"
                        base="i1126310"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  2</xref>)
that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold and for each order
that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold. Agencies are
required to prepare an evaluation if a modification to the contract
causes the dollar amount to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> Orders
under multiple-agency contracts. Agencies shall prepare an evaluation
of contractor performance for each order that exceeds the simplified
acquisition threshold that is placed under a Federal Supply Schedule
contract or placed under a task-order contract or a delivery-order
contract awarded by another agency (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, Governmentwide acquisition
contract or multi-agency contract). Agencies placing orders under
their own multiple-agency contract shall also prepare evaluations
for their own orders. This evaluation shall not consider the requirements
under paragraph (g) of this section. Agencies are required to prepare
an evaluation if a modification to the order causes the dollar amount
to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e34">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Orders
under single-agency contracts. For single-agency task-order and
delivery-order contracts, the contracting officer may require performance
evaluations for each order in excess of the simplified acquisition
threshold when such evaluations would produce more useful past performance
information for source selection officials than that contained in
the overall contract evaluation (e.g., when the scope of the basic
contract is very broad and the nature of individual orders could
be significantly different). This evaluation need not consider the
requirements under paragraph (g) of this section unless the contracting
officer deems it appropriate.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e39">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph> Past performance evaluations shall be prepared for each construction contract of <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$900,000</ph> or more, and for each construction contract terminated for default regardless of contract value. Past performance evaluations may also be prepared for construction contracts below <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$900,000<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 42.1502 by—   a. Removing from paragraph (e) “$750,000” wherever it appears and adding “$900,000” in their places, respectively; and?></ph>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> Past performance evaluations shall be prepared for each architect-engineer services contract of <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$45,000</ph> or more, and for each architect-engineer services contract that is terminated for default regardless of contract value. Past performance evaluations may also be prepared for architect-engineer services contracts below <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$45,000<?FM MARKER [Why] b. Removing from paragraph (f) “$35,000” wherever it appears and adding “$45,000” in their places, respectively.?></ph>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph> Past performance
evaluations shall include an assessment of the contractor's-</p>
               <ol id="d2548e84" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e55">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Performance
against, and efforts to achieve, the goals identified in the small
business subcontracting plan when the contract includes the clause
at <xref href="52.219-9.dita#FAR_52_219_9"
                              base="i1057483"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-9</xref>, Small Business
Subcontracting Plan; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Reduced
or untimely payments (as defined in <xref href="19.701.dita#FAR_19_701"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.701</xref>),
made to small business subcontractors, determined by the contracting
officer to be unjustified. The contracting officer shall-</p>
                     <ol id="d2548e109" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e72">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Consider
and evaluate a contractor's written explanation for a reduced or
an untimely payment when determining whether the reduced or untimely
payment is justified; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e77">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Determine that a history of unjustified reduced or untimely payments has occurred when the contractor has reported three or more occasions of unjustified reduced or untimely payments under a single contract within a 12-month period (see <xref href="42.1503.dita#FAR_42_1503"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">42.1503</xref>(h)(1)(vi) and the evaluation ratings in <xref href="42.1503.dita#FAR_42_1503/iTable_42-2"
                                    outputclass="fm:Table"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">Table  42-2</xref>). The following payment or nonpayment situations are not considered to be unjustified:</p>
                           <ol id="d2548e134" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e89">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> There
is a contract dispute on performance.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e94">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> A partial
payment is made for amounts not in dispute.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e99">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> A payment
is reduced due to past overpayments.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e104">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(D)</ph> There
is an administrative mistake.</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e109">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(E)</ph> Late performance
by the subcontractor leads to later payment by the prime contractor.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e114">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph> Agencies
shall not evaluate performance for contracts awarded under <xref href="Subpart_8.7.dita#FAR_Subpart_8_7"
                        base="i1116916"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  8.7</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2574e122">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Agencies
shall promptly report other contractor information in accordance
with <xref href="42.1503.dita#FAR_42_1503"
                        base="i1074269"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">42.1503</xref>(h).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
