<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_45_301" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">45.301</ph> Use and rental.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for contractor use and rental of Government property.</p>
         <ol id="d2616e16" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e12">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Government property shall normally be provided on a rent-free basis in performance of the contract under which it is accountable or otherwise authorized.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e17">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Rental charges, to the extent authorized do not apply to Government property that is left in place or installed on contractor-owned property for mobilization or future Government production purposes; however, rental charges shall apply to that portion of property or its capacity used for non-government commercial purposes or otherwise authorized for use.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e22">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The contracting officer cognizant of the Government property may authorize the rent-free use of property in the possession of nonprofit organizations when used for research, development, or educational work and-</p>
               <ol id="d2616e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e28">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The use of the property is in the national interest;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e33">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The property will not be used for the direct benefit of a profit-making organization; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                The Government receives some direct benefit, such as rights to use the results of the work without charge, from its use.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e43">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            In exchange for consideration as determined by the cognizant contracting officer(s), the contractor may use Government property under fixed-price contracts other than the contract to which it is accountable. When, after contract award, a contractor requests the use of Government property, the contracting officer shall obtain a fair rental or other adequate consideration if use is authorized.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e48">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            The cognizant contracting officer(s) may authorize the use of Government property on a rent-free basis on a cost type Government contract other than the contract to which it is accountable.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2642e53">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            In exchange for consideration as determined by the cognizant contracting officer, the contractor may use Government property for commercial use. Prior approval of the Head of the Contracting Activity is required where non-Government use is expected to exceed 25 percent of the total use of Government and commercial work performed.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
