<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_46_706" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">46.706</ph> Warranty terms and conditions.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2698e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> To facilitate the pricing and
enforcement of warranties, the contracting officer shall ensure
that warranties clearly state the-</p>
               <ol id="d2698e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Exact nature
of the item and its components and characteristics that the contractor
warrants;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e21">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Extent
of the contractor’s warranty including all of the contractor’s obligations
to the Government for breach of warranty;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Specific
remedies available to the Government; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Scope and
duration of the warranty.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The contracting
officer shall consider the following guidelines when preparing warranty
terms and conditions:</p>
               <ol id="d2698e71" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e42">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Extent of
contractor obligations.</p>
                     <ol id="d2698e81" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e48">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Generally, the contractor’s obligations
under warranties extend to all defects discovered during the warranty
period, but do not include damage caused by the Government. When
a warranty for the entire item is not advisable, a warranty may
be required for a particular aspect of the item that may require
special protection (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> installation, components, accessories,
subassemblies, preservation, packaging, and packing, etc.).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e56">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> If the
Government specifies the design of the end item and its measurements,
tolerances, materials, tests, or inspection requirements, the contractor’s
obligations for correction of defects shall usually be limited to
defects in material and workmanship or failure to conform to specifications.
If the Government does not specify the design, the warranty extends
also to the usefulness of the design.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e61">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> If express
warranties are included in a contract (except contracts for commercial products and
commercial services), all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness for a particular purpose shall be negated by the use of
specific language in the clause (see clauses <xref href="52.246-17.dita#FAR_52_246_17"
                                    base="i1047153"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.246-17</xref>, Warranty of
Supplies of a Noncomplex Nature; <xref href="52.246-18.dita#FAR_52_246_18"
                                    base="i1047200"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.246-18</xref>, Warranty of
Supplies of a Complex Nature; and <xref href="52.246-19.dita#FAR_52_246_19"
                                    base="i1047233"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.246-19</xref>, Warranty of
Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design
Criteria).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e75">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Remedies.</p>
                     <ol id="d2698e132" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e81">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Normally,
a warranty shall provide as a minimum that the Government may-</p>
                           <ol id="d2698e142" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e87">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Obtain
an equitable adjustment of the contract, or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e92">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Direct
the contractor to repair or replace the defective items at the contractor’s
expense.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e97">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> If it
is not practical to direct the contractor to make the repair or
replacement, or, because of the nature of the item, the repair or
replacement does not afford an appropriate remedy to the Government,
the warranty should provide alternate remedies, such as authorizing
the Government to-</p>
                           <ol id="d2698e172" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e103">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Retain the defective item and
reduce the contract price by an amount equitable under the circumstances;
or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e108">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Arrange
for the repair or replacement of the defective item, by the Government
or by another source, at the contractor’s expense.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e113">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> If it
can be foreseen that it will not be practical to return an item
to the contractor for repair, to remove it to an alternate source
for repair, or to replace the defective item, the warranty should
provide that the Government may repair, or require the contractor
to repair, the item in place at the contractor’s expense. The contract
shall provide that in the circumstance where the Government is to
accomplish the repair, the contractor will furnish at the place
of delivery the material or parts, and the installation instructions
required to successfully accomplish the repair.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e118">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Unless
provided otherwise in the warranty, the contractor’s obligation
to repair or replace the defective item, or to agree to an equitable
adjustment of the contract, shall include responsibility for the
costs of furnishing all labor and material to-</p>
                           <ol id="d2698e211" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e124">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> Reinspect
items that the Government reasonably expected to be defective,</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e129">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Accomplish
the required repair or replacement of defective items, and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e134">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> Test,
inspect, package, pack, and mark repaired or replaced items.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e139">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> If repair
or replacement of defective items is required, the contractor shall
generally be required by the warranty to bear the expense of transportation
for returning the defective item from the place of delivery specified
in the contract (irrespective of the f.o.b. point or the point of
acceptance) to the contractor’s plant and subsequent return. When
defective items are returned to the contractor from other than the
place of delivery specified in the contract, or when the Government
exercises alternate remedies, the contractor’s liability for transportation
charges incurred shall not exceed an amount equal to the cost of
transportation by the usual commercial method of shipment between the
place of delivery specified in the contract and the contractor’s
plant and subsequent return.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e144">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Duration
of the warranty.</i> The time period or duration of the warranty
must be clearly specified and shall be established after consideration
of such factors as (i) the estimated useful life of the item, (ii)
the nature of the item including storage or shelf-life, and (iii)
trade practice. The period specified shall not extend the contractor’s
liability for patent defects beyond a reasonable time after acceptance
by the Government.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e151">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notice.</i> The
warranty shall specify a reasonable time for furnishing notice to
the contractor regarding the discovery of defects. This notice period,
which shall apply to all defects discovered during the warranty
period, shall be long enough to assure that the Government has adequate
time to give notice to the contractor. The contracting officer shall consider
the following factors when establishing the notice period:</p>
                     <ol id="d2698e276" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e159">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The
time necessary for the Government to discover the defects.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e164">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The time
reasonably required for the Government to take necessary administrative
steps and make a timely report of discovery of the defects to the
contractor.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e169">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The
time required to discover and report defective replacements.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e174">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Markings.</i>
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e181">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              The packaging and preservation
requirements of the contract shall require the contractor to stamp or
mark the supplies delivered or otherwise furnish notice with the
supplies of the existence of the warranty. The purpose of the markings
or notice is to inform Government personnel who store, stock, or
use the supplies that the supplies are under warranty. Markings
may be brief but should include—
                           </p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e187">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>A brief statement that a warranty
exists;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e192">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>The substance of the warranty;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e197">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph>Its duration; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e202">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(D)</ph>Who to notify if the supplies are
found to be defective.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e207">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              For commercial products
(see <xref href="46.709.dita#FAR_46_709"
                                    base="i1047200"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">46.709</xref>), the contractor's
trade practice in warranty marking is acceptable if sufficient information
is presented for supply personnel and users to identify warranted
supplies.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2725e215">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Consistency.</i> Contracting
officers shall ensure that the warranty clause and any other warranty
conditions in the contract (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> in the specifications or
an inspection clause) are consistent. To the extent practicable,
all of the warranties to be contained in the contract should be
expressed in the warranty clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
