<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_47_305_9" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">47.305-9</ph> Commodity description and freight classification.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2790e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Generally, the freight rate for supplies is based on the rating applicable to the freight classification description published in the National Motor Freight Classification (NMFC) (for carriers) and the Uniform Freight Classification (UFC) (for rail) filed with Federal and State regulatory bodies. Therefore, the contracting officer shall show in the solicitation a complete description of the commodity to be acquired and of packing requirements to determine proper transportation charges for the evaluation of offers. If supplies cannot be properly classified through reference to freight classification tariffs or if doubt exists, the contracting officer shall obtain the applicable freight classification from the transportation office. In some situations prospective contractors have established an official freight classification description that can be applied.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2790e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e20">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                When the supplies being acquired are new to the supply system, nonstandard, or modifications of previously shipped items, and different freight classifications may apply, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations the provision at <xref href="52.247-53.dita#FAR_52_247_53"
                              base="i1046387"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-53</xref>, Freight Classification Description.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e28">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The contracting officer shall alert the transportation officer to the possibility of negotiations for appropriate freight classification ratings and reasonable transportation rates.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e33">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The solicitation shall contain adequate descriptions of explosives and other dangerous supplies according to-</p>
               <ol id="d2790e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The regular freight classification; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The hazardous material description and hazard class as shown in 49 CFR172.101.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2817e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The contracting officer	shall furnish the freight classification information developed in <xref href="#FAR_47_305_9"
                        base="i1070711"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">47.305-9</xref>(a), (b), and (c) of this section	to the contract administration office.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
