<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_47_305_3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">47.305-3</ph> F.o.b. origin solicitations.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d2815e8" class="- topic/p ">When preparing f.o.b. origin solicitations, the contracting officer shall refer to <xref href="47.303.dita#FAR_47_303"
                  base="i1070167"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">47.303</xref>, where f.o.b. origin clauses relating to standard delivery terms are prescribed. Supply solicitations that will or may result in f.o.b. origin contracts shall also contain requirements, information, provisions, and clauses concerning the following items:</p>
         <ol id="d2784e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Delivery in carload or truckload lots f.o.b. carrier’s equipment, wharf, or freight station.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The requirement that the offeror furnish the following information with the offer:</p>
               <ol id="d2784e41" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Location of the offeror’s actual shipping point(s) (street address, city, State, and ZIP code) from which supplies will be delivered to the Government.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Whether the offeror’s shipping point has a private railroad siding, and the name of the rail carrier serving it.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                When the offeror’s shipping point does not have a private siding, the names and addresses of the nearest public rail siding and of the carrier serving it. (This will enable transportation officers, when issuing routing instructions, to select the mode of transportation that will provide the required service at the lowest possible overall cost.)</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e41">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d2784e78" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e46">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The quantity of supplies to be shipped from each shipping point.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e51">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The contracting officer shall insert in f.o.b. origin solicitations the provision at <xref href="52.247-46.dita#FAR_52_247_46"
                                    base="i1046222"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">52.247-46</xref>, Shipping Point(s) Used in Evaluation of F.o.b. Origin Offers, when price evaluation for shipments from various shipping points is contemplated.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e59">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            When delivery is "f.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility," and the designated facility is not covered by the line-haul transportation rate, the charges required to deliver the shipment to the point where the line-haul rate is applicable.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e64">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            When delivery is "f.o.b. origin, freight allowed," the basis on which transportation charges will be allowed, including the origin and destination from and to which transportation charges will be allowed.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e69">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            If f.o.b. origin offers only are desired, a statement that offers submitted on any other basis will be rejected as nonresponsive.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e74">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2784e141" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e79">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The methods of transportation used in evaluating offers.</i> The Government normally uses land transportation by regulated common carriers between points in the 48 contiguous United States and the District of Columbia.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e86">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref href="52.247-47.dita#FAR_52_247_47"
                              base="i1046233"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-47</xref>, Evaluation-F.o.b. Origin, in solicitations that require prices f.o.b. origin for the purpose of establishing the basis on which offers will be evaluated.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e94">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2784e177" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e99">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                When it is believed that prospective contractors are likely to include in f.o.b. origin offers a contingency to compensate for what may be an unfavorable routing condition by the Government at the time of shipment, the contracting officer may permit prospective contractors to state in offers a reimbursable differential that represents the cost of bringing the supplies to any f.o.b. origin place of delivery specified by the Government at the time of shipment (see the clause at <xref href="52.247-33.dita#FAR_52_247_33"
                              base="i1045983"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.247-33</xref>, F.o.b. Origin, with Differentials).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e107">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Following are situations that might impose on the contractor a substantial cost above "at plant" or "commercial shipping point" prices because of Government-required routings:</p>
                     <ol id="d2784e199" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e113">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    The loading nature of the supplies; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> wheeled vehicles.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e121">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The different methods of shipment specified by the Government; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> towaway, driveaway, tri-level vehicle, or rail car, that may increase the contractor’s cost in varying amounts for bringing the supplies to, or loading and bracing the supplies at, the specified place of delivery.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e129">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    The contractor’s f.o.b. origin shipping point is a port city served by United States inland, coastwise, or intercoastal water transportation, and the contractor would incur additional costs to make delivery f.o.b. a wharf in that city to accommodate water routing specified by the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2811e134">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    The contractor’s plant does not have a private rail siding and in order to ship by Government-specified rail routing, the contractor would be required to deliver the supplies to a public siding or freight terminal and to load, brace, and install dunnage in rail cars.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
