<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_49_107" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">49.107</ph> Audit of prime contract settlement proposals and subcontract settlements.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2853e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The TCO shall refer each prime contractor settlement proposal valued at or above the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data set forth in FAR <xref href="15.403-4.dita#FAR_15_403_4"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">15.403-4</xref>(a)(1) to the appropriate audit agency for review and recommendations. The TCO may submit settlement proposals of less than the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data to the audit agency. Referrals shall indicate any specific information or data that the TCO considers relevant and shall include facts and circumstances that will assist the audit agency in performing its function. The audit agency shall develop requested information and may make any further accounting reviews it considers appropriate. After its review, the audit agency shall submit written comments and recommendations to the TCO. When a formal examination of settlement proposals valued under the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data is not warranted, the TCO will perform or have performed a desk review and include a written summary of the review in the termination case file.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The TCO shall refer subcontract settlements received for approval or ratification to the appropriate audit agency for review and recommendations when—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e24">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The amount exceeds the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e29">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The TCO determines that a complete or partial accounting review is advisable. The audit agency shall submit written comments and recommendations to the TCO. The review by the audit agency does not relieve the prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor of the responsibility for performing an accounting review.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e34">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d2853e41" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The responsibility of the prime contractor and of each subcontractor (see <xref href="49.108.dita#FAR_49_108"
                              base="i1068724"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">49.108</xref>) includes performance of accounting reviews and any necessary field audits. However, the TCO should request the Government audit agency to perform the accounting review of a subcontractor’s settlement proposal when-</p>
                     <ol id="d2853e54" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e48">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    A subcontractor objects, for competitive reasons, to an accounting review of its records by an upper tier contractor;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e53">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    The Government audit agency is currently performing audit work at the subcontractor’s plant, or can perform the audit more economically or efficiently;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e58">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
										                    Audit by the Government is necessary for consistent audit treatment and orderly administration; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e63">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
										                    The contractor has a substantial or controlling financial interest in the subcontractor.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The audit agency should avoid duplication of accounting reviews performed by the upper tier contractor on subcontractor settlement proposals. However, this should not preclude the Government from making additional reviews when appropriate. When the contractor is performing accounting reviews according to this section, the TCO should request the audit agency to periodically examine the contractor’s accounting review procedures and performance, and to make appropriate comments and recommendations to the TCO.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2880e73">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The audit report is advisory only, and is for the TCO to use in negotiating a settlement or issuing a unilateral determination. Government personnel handling audit reports must be careful not to reveal privileged information or information that will jeopardize the negotiation position of the Government, the prime contractor, or a higher tier subcontractor. Consistent with this, and when in the Government’s interest, the TCO may furnish audit reports under paragraph (c) of this section to prime and higher tier subcontractors for their use in settling subcontract settlement proposals.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
