<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_49_503" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">49.503</ph> Termination for convenience of the Government and default.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2925e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Cost-reimbursement contracts-</p>
               <ol id="d2925e23" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e16">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General use.</i> Insert the clause at <xref href="52.249-6.dita#FAR_52_249_6"
                              base="i1044829"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.249-6</xref>, Termination (Cost-Reimbursement), in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated, except contracts for research and development with an educational or nonprofit institution on a no-fee basis.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e26">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction.</i> If the contract is for construction, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateI.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e33">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Partial payments.</i> If the contract is with an agency of the U.S. Government or with State, local, or foreign governments or their agencies, and if the contracting officer determines that the requirement to pay interest on excess partial payments is inappropriate, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateII. In such contracts for construction, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIII.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e40">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Time-and-material and labor-hour contracts.</i> If the contract is a time-and-material or labor-hour contract, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIV. If the contract is with an agency of the U.S. Government or with State, local, or foreign governments or their agencies, and if the contracting officer determines that the requirement to pay interest on excess partial payments is inappropriate, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate V.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e47">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Insert the clause at <xref href="52.249-7.dita#FAR_52_249_7"
                        base="i1044935"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.249-7</xref>, Termination (Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer), in solicitations and contracts for architect-engineer services, when a fixed-price contract is contemplated.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d2952e55">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts.</i> The prime contractor may find the clause at <xref href="52.249-6.dita#FAR_52_249_6"
                        base="i1044829"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.249-6</xref>, Termination (Cost-Reimbursement), suitable for use in cost-reimbursement subcontracts; provided, that the relationship between the contractor and subcontractor is clearly indicated. Inapplicable conditions (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> paragraphs (e), (j) and (n)) should be deleted and the period for submitting the subcontractor’s termination settlement proposal should be reduced (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i>6 months).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
