<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_107" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.107</ph> Provisions and clauses prescribed in subpart 52.1.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d3019e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3049e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref href="52.252-1.dita#FAR_52_252_1"
                        base="i1045295"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-1</xref>, Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference, in solicitations in order to incorporate provisions by reference.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3049e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref href="52.252-2.dita#FAR_52_252_2"
                        base="i1045305"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-2</xref>, Clauses Incorporated by Reference, in solicitations and contracts in order to incorporate clauses by reference.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3049e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref href="52.252-3.dita#FAR_52_252_3"
                        base="i1045315"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-3</xref>, Alterations in Solicitation, in solicitations in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the solicitation that apply to the solicitation phase only, except for any provision authorized for use with a deviation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3049e34">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref href="52.252-4.dita#FAR_52_252_4"
                        base="i1045325"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-4</xref>, Alterations in Contract, in solicitations and contracts in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the contract, or parts of the solicitations that apply to the contract phase, except for any clause authorized for use with a deviation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3049e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref href="52.252-5.dita#FAR_52_252_5"
                        base="i1045335"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-5</xref>, Authorized Deviations in Provisions, in solicitations that include any FAR or supplemental provision with an authorized deviation. Whenever any FAR or supplemental provision is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the provision when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental provision, except that the contracting officer shall insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3049e50">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
						            The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref href="52.252-6.dita#FAR_52_252_6"
                        base="i1045348"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-6</xref>, Authorized Deviations in Clauses, in solicitations and contracts that include any FAR or supplemental clause with an authorized deviation. Whenever any FAR or supplemental clause is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the clause when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental clause, except that the contracting officer shall insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
