<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_103" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.103</ph> Identification of provisions and clauses.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d3015e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3045e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Whenever any FAR provision or clause is used without deviation in a solicitation or contract, whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text, it shall be identified by number, title, and date. This identification shall also be used if the FAR provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation, except that the contracting officer shall then insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date. Solicited firms and contractors will be advised of the meaning of this insertion through the use of the (1) provision at <xref href="52.252-5.dita#FAR_52_252_5"
                        base="i1045335"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-5</xref>, Authorized Deviations in Provisions, or (2) clause at <xref href="52.252-6.dita#FAR_52_252_6"
                        base="i1045348"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.252-6</xref>, Authorized Deviations in Clauses. The above mentioned provision and clause are prescribed in <xref href="52.107.dita#FAR_52_107"
                        base="i1064684"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.107</xref>(e) and (f).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3045e24">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Any provision or clause that supplements the FAR whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text shall be clearly identified by number, title, date, and name of the regulation. When a supplemental provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation, insert "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3045e29">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            A provision or clause of the type described in <xref href="52.101.dita#FAR_52_101"
                        base="i1064507"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.101</xref>(b)(2)(i)(C) shall be identified by the title, date, and the name of the agency or suborganization within the agency that developed it.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3045e37">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            Except for provisions or	clauses covered by <xref href="#FAR_52_103"
                        base="i1064634"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.103</xref>(c), the	following hypothetical examples illustrate how a provision or clause that	supplements the FAR shall be identified when it is incorporated in	solicitations and/or contracts by reference or in full text:</p>
               <ol id="d3015e65" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3045e46">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                If <xref href="Part_14.dita#FAR_Part_14"
                              base="i1111055"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  14</xref> (Sealed Bidding) of the X Agency Acquisition Regulation, published in the <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal Register</i> and codified as Chapter 99 in 48 CFR, prescribes the use of a provision entitled "Bid Envelopes," dated October 1983, and that provision is sequentially the first provision or clause appearing in Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              base="id123456i"
                              href="52.214.dita#FAR_52_214">52.214</xref> of the X Agency Acquisition Regulation, then the identification of that provision shall be "9952.214-70-Bid Envelopes <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 1983)</ph>."</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3045e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Assume that Y, a major organizational element of the X Agency, is authorized to issue the Y Acquisition Regulation, which is not published in the <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Federal Register</i> and codified in 48 CFR. If <xref href="Part_36.dita#FAR_Part_36"
                              base="i1079251"
                              outputclass="fm:Part"
                              class="- topic/xref ">part  36</xref> (Construction and Architect-Engineer Contracts) of the Y Acquisition Regulation prescribes the use of a clause entitled "Refrigerated Display Cases," dated March 1983, pertaining to a specialized type of construction work, and that clause is sequentially the second provision or clause appearing in Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              base="id123456y"
                              href="52.236.dita#FAR_52_236">52.236</xref> of the Y Acquisition Regulation, then the identification of that clause shall be "52.236-71-Refrigerated Display Cases <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Mar 1983)</ph>-Y Acquisition Regulation."</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
