<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept " id="FAR_52_215_14" xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.215-14</ph> Integrity of Unit
Prices.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3218e8">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1106593"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>(f)(1)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3218e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Integrity of Unit Prices (Nov 2021)
         </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3183e25">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3218e19">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph> Any
proposal submitted for the negotiation of prices for items of supplies
shall distribute costs within contracts on a basis that ensures
that unit prices are in proportion to the items’ base cost (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> manufacturing
or acquisition costs). Any method of distributing costs to line
items that distorts unit prices shall not be used. For example,
distributing costs equally among line items is not acceptable except
when there is little or no variation in base cost. Nothing in this
paragraph requires submission of certified cost or pricing data
not otherwise required by law or regulation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3218e27">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph> When requested
by the Contracting Officer, the Offeror/Contractor shall also identify
those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will
not contribute significant value.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3218e32">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(c)</ph> The Contractor
shall insert the substance of this clause, less paragraph (b) of
this clause, in all subcontracts for other than: acquisitions at
or below the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref base="i1125359"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref> on
the date of subcontract award; construction or architect-engineer
services under FAR <xref base="i1079251"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="Part_36.dita#FAR_Part_36"
                        outputclass="fm:Part">part  36</xref>;
utility services under FAR <xref base="i1076909"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="Part_41.dita#FAR_Part_41"
                        outputclass="fm:Part">part  41</xref>;
services where supplies are not required; commercial products and commercial
services; and petroleum products.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3221e49">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Oct 1997)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(f)(2),
substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the
basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) The Offeror/Contractor
shall also identify those supplies that it will not manufacture
or to which it will not contribute significant value.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
