<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_212_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.212-1</ph> 
         Instructions to Offerors—Commercial
Products and Commercial Services.
      </title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="12.301.dita#FAR_12_301"
                     base="i1113145"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">12.301</xref>(b)(1)</ph>, insert
the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e16" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">
            Instructions to
            Offerors—Commercial Products and Commercial Services (Sep
            2023)
         </p>
         <ol id="d3123e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard.</i> The NAICS code(s) and small business size standard(s) for this acquisition appear elsewhere in the solicitation. However, the small business size standard for a concern that submits an offer, other than on a construction or service acquisition, but proposes to furnish an end item that it did not itself manufacture, process, or produce is 500 employees, or 150 employees for information technology value-added resellers under NAICS code 541519, if the acquisition—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e27">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>Is set aside
for small business and has a value above the simplified acquisition
threshold;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e32">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>Uses the
HUBZone price evaluation preference regardless of dollar value,
unless the offeror waives the price evaluation preference; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>Is an 8(a),
HUBZone, service-disabled veteran-owned, economically disadvantaged
women-owned, or women-owned small business set-aside or sole-source
award regardless of dollar value.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e42">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Submission
of offers</i>. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified
in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this
solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/solicitationcontractorder-commercial-items"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">SF 1449</xref>, letterhead
stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a
minimum, offers must show—</p>
               <ol id="d3123e56" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e53">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The solicitation number;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e58">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The time
specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e63">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The name,
address, and telephone number of the offeror;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> A technical
description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate
compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include
product literature, or other documents, if necessary;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e73">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Terms of
any express warranty;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e78">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Price and
any discount terms;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e83">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> "Remit
to" address, if different than mailing address;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e88">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph> A completed
copy of the representations and certifications at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref href="52.212-3.dita#FAR_52_212_3"
                              base="i1060550"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.212-3</xref>
                         (see FAR <xref href="52.212-3.dita#FAR_52_212_3"
                              base="i1060550"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.212-3</xref>(b) for those
representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete
electronically);</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e99">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph> Acknowledgment
of Solicitation Amendments;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e104">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph> Past
performance information, when included as an evaluation factor,
to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar
items and other references (including contract numbers, points of
contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information);
and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e109">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(11)</ph> If the
offer is not submitted on the <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/solicitationcontractorder-commercial-items"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">SF 1449</xref>, include a
statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions,
and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to
furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms
and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e117">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Period
for acceptance of offers</i>. The offeror agrees to hold the prices
in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for
receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an
addendum to the solicitation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e124">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Product
samples</i>. When required by the solicitation, product samples
shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt
of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these
samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and
returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed
during preaward testing.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e131">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Multiple
offers</i>. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting
alternative terms and conditions, including alternative line items
(provided that the alternative line items are consistent with FAR <xref href="Subpart_4.10.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_10"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  4.10</xref>), or
alternative commercial
products or commercial services for satisfying the requirements
of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e141">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph> Late
submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers.</p>
               <ol id="d3123e217" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e147">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Offerors
are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions,
or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated
in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If
no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is
4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the
date that offers or revisions are due.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e152">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3123e236" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e157">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Any
offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received
at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the
exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not
be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting
Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay
the acquisition; and-</p>
                           <ol id="d3123e246" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e163">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> If it was transmitted through
an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it
was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure
not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified
for receipt of offers; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e168">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> There
is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the
Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was
under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt
of offers; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e173">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> If this
solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal
received.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e178">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> However,
a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes
its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at
any time it is received and may be accepted.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e183">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Acceptable
evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation
includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper,
other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation,
or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e188">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> If an
emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes
so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated
for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation,
and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation
or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified
for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same
time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day
on which normal Government processes resume.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e193">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Offers
may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the
exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to
oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation
authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile
received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers,
subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning
facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror
or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for
receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal
is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e198">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(g)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract
award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids</i>). The Government
intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions
with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain
the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint.
However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions
if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary.
The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in
the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive
informalities and minor irregularities in offers received.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e205">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Multiple
awards</i>. The Government may accept any item or group of items
of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific
limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may
not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government
reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less
than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the
offeror specifies otherwise in the offer.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e212">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Availability
of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.</p>
               <ol id="d3123e352" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e218">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3123e362" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e223">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              The
                              GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and
                              Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101–29,
                              and copies of Federal specifications, standards,
                              and product descriptions can be downloaded from
                              the ASSIST website at <xref href="https://assist.dla.mil" format="html" scope="external">https://assist.dla.mil</xref>.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e241">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              If the General
                              Services Administration, Department of
                              Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs
                              issued this solicitation, a copy of
                              specifications, standards, and commercial item
                              descriptions cited in this solicitation may be
                              obtained from the address in paragraph (i)(1)(i)
                              of this provision.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e246">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        Most
                        unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be
                        downloaded from the ASSIST website at <xref href="https://assist.dla.mil" format="html" scope="external">https://assist.dla.mil</xref>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e270">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        Defense
                        documents not available from the ASSIST website may be
                        requested from the Defense Standardization Program
                        Office
                        by—
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3123e462" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e276">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              Using the
                              ASSIST feedback module ( <xref href="https://assist.dla.mil/feedback"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external">https://assist.dla.mil/​feedback</xref>);
                              or
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e284">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              Contacting the
                              Defense Standardization Program Office by
                              telephone at 571–767–6688 or email at <xref href="mailto:assisthelp@dla.mil" format="mil" scope="external">assisthelp@dla.mil</xref>.
                           </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e294">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Nongovernment
(voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible
for their preparation, publication, or maintenance.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e299">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(j)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unique
entity identifier.</i>(Applies to all offers that exceed the micro-purchase
threshold, and offers at or below the micro-purchase threshold if
the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the
System for Award Management (SAM).) The Offeror shall enter, in
the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer,
the annotation "Unique Entity Identifier" followed by the unique
entity identifier that identifies the Offeror's name and address.
The Offeror also shall enter its Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT)
indicator, if applicable. The EFT indicator is a four-character suffix
to the unique entity identifier. The suffix is assigned at the discretion
of the Offeror to establish additional SAM records for identifying
alternative EFT accounts (see FAR <xref href="Subpart_32.11.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_11"
                        base="i1080713"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.11</xref>) for
the same entity. If the Offeror does not have a unique entity identifier,
it should contact the entity designated at <xref href="http://www.sam.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.sam.gov</xref> for
unique entity identifier establishment directly to obtain one. The
Offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract
when contacting the entity designated at <xref href="http://www.sam.gov"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">www.sam.gov</xref> for
establishing the unique entity identifier.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e315">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(k)</ph> [Reserved]</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e321">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(l)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Debriefing</i>.
If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the
Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable:</p>
               <ol id="d3123e552" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e329">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors
in the debriefed offeror’s offer.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e334">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The overall
evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and
the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed
offeror.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e339">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The overall
ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency
during source selection.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e344">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> A summary
of the rationale for award;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e349">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> For acquisitions
of commercial products,
the make and model of the product to be delivered by the successful offeror.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3158e354">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Reasonable
responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as
to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation,
applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed
by the agency.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
