<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            id="FAR_52_215_21"
            xtrc="GFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.215-21</ph> Requirements for
Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost
or Pricing Data-Modifications.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " outputclass="clause">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e8">As prescribed
in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1106593"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>(m)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Requirements for Certified Cost or
Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e25">
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e19">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph> Exceptions from certified cost
or pricing data.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e35">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e25">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> In lieu of submitting certified
cost or pricing data for modifications under this contract, for
price adjustments expected to exceed the threshold set forth in
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref base="i1106066"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.403-4.dita#FAR_15_403_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.403-4</xref>(a)(1) on the
date of the agreement on price or the date of the award, whichever
is later, the Contractor may submit a written request for exception
by submitting the information described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and
(ii) of this clause. If the threshold for submission of certified
cost or pricing data specified in FAR <xref base="i1106066"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.403-4.dita#FAR_15_403_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.403-4</xref>(a)(1) is adjusted
for inflation as set forth in FAR <xref class="- topic/xref "
                              href="1.109.dita#FAR_1_109"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">1.109</xref>(a), then pursuant
to FAR <xref class="- topic/xref "
                              href="1.109.dita#FAR_1_109"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">1.109</xref>(d) the changed threshold
applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there
is a subsequent threshold adjustment. The Contracting Officer may
require additional supporting information, but only to the extent
necessary to determine whether an exception should be granted, and
whether the price is fair and reasonable—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e48">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e43">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Identification
of the law or regulation establishing the price offered</i>. If
the price is controlled under law by periodic rulings, reviews,
or similar actions of a governmental body, attach a copy of the
controlling document, unless it was previously submitted to the
contracting office.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e50">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Information
on modifications of contracts or subcontracts for commercial products or
commercial services.</i>
                           </p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e70">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e57">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> If—</p>
                                 <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e80">
                                    <li class="- topic/li " outputclass="italic" xtrf="52.215-21_d7e64">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e63">
                                          <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The original contract or subcontract
was granted an exception from certified cost or pricing data requirements
because the price agreed upon was based on adequate price competition
or prices set by law or regulation, or was a contract or subcontract
for the acquisition of a commercial product
or commercial service; and</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li " outputclass="italic" xtrf="52.215-21_d7e69">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e68">
                                          <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The modification (to the contract
or subcontract) is not exempted based on one of these exceptions,
then the Contractor may provide information to establish that the
modification would not change the contract or subcontract from a contract
or subcontract for the acquisition of a commercial product or commercial
service, to a contract or subcontract for the acquisition of other
than a commercial product or commercial service.
                                       </p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e73">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> For a commercial product and
commercial service exception, the Contractor shall provide,
at a minimum, information on prices at which the same item or similar
items have previously been sold that is adequate for evaluating
the reasonableness of the price of the modification. Such information
may include-</p>
                                 <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e110">
                                    <li class="- topic/li " outputclass="italic" xtrf="52.215-21_d7e80">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e79">
                                          <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> For catalog items, a copy of or
identification of the catalog and its date, or the appropriate pages
for the offered items, or a statement that the catalog is on file
in the buying office to which the proposal is being submitted. Provide
a copy or describe current discount policies and price lists (published
or unpublished), <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> wholesale, original equipment manufacturer,
or reseller. Also explain the basis of each offered price and its
relationship to the established catalog price, including how the
proposed price relates to the price of recent sales in quantities
similar to the proposed quantities.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li " outputclass="italic" xtrf="52.215-21_d7e88">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e87">
                                          <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> For market-priced items, the source
and date or period of the market quotation or other basis for market price,
the base amount, and applicable discounts. In addition, describe
the nature of the market.</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li " outputclass="italic" xtrf="52.215-21_d7e93">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e92">
                                          <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> For items included on an active
Federal Supply Service Multiple Award Schedule contract, proof that
an exception has been granted for the schedule item.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e97">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The Contractor
grants the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative the
right to examine, at any time before award, books, records, documents,
or other directly pertinent records to verify any request for an
exception under this clause, and the reasonableness of price. For
items priced using catalog or market prices, or law or regulation,
access does not extend to cost or profit information or other data
relevant solely to the Contractor’s determination of the prices to
be offered in the catalog or marketplace.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e102">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Requirements
for certified cost or pricing data</i>. If the Contractor is not
granted an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost
or pricing data, the following applies:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3190e170">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e110">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The Contractor shall submit certified cost or pricing data, data other than certified cost or pricing data, and supporting attachments in accordance with the instructions contained in <xref base="i1106753"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                              outputclass="fm:TEXT">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref> of FAR <xref base="i1106593"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>, which is incorporated by reference with the same force and effect as though it were inserted here in full text. The instructions in <xref base="i1106753"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                              outputclass="fm:TEXT">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref> are incorporated as a mandatory format to be used in this contract, unless the Contracting Officer and the Contractor agree to a different format and change this clause to use Alternate I.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3225e124">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> As soon
as practicable after agreement on price, but before award (except
for unpriced actions), the Contractor shall submit a Certificate
of Current Cost or Pricing Data, as prescribed by FAR <xref base="i1106384"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="15.406-2.dita#FAR_15_406_2"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.406-2</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3228e125">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 2010)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(m)
and <xref base="i1106106"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="15.403-5.dita#FAR_15_403_5"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.403-5</xref>(b)(1), substitute
the following paragraph (b)(1) for paragraph (b)(1) of the basic
clause.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b)(1) The Contractor shall submit certified cost or pricing data, data other than certified cost or pricing data, and supporting attachments prepared in the following format: <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="MultiLine"
                     xtrc="52.215-21_d3213e226"
                     xtrf="GFI">_________________________________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert description of the data and format that are required and include access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with <xref base="i1106593"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>, <xref base="i1106753"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408/i1106753"
                           outputclass="fm:TEXT">15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</xref>, Note 2. The description may be inserted at the time of issuing the solicitation, or the Contracting Officer may specify that the offeror's format will be acceptable, or the description may be inserted as the result of negotiations</i>.]</cite>:</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3221e164">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 1997)</ph>.
As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(m), add the following
paragraph (c) to the basic clause:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(c)
When the proposal is submitted, also submit one copy each to: (1)
the Administrative Contracting Officer, and (2) the Contract Auditor.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3221e178">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
III </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 1997)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(m), add the following
paragraph (c) to the basic clause (if Alternate II is also used,
redesignate the following paragraph as paragraph (d)):</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(c) Submit the cost portion of the proposal via the following electronic media: <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrc="52.215-21_d3213e273"
                     xtrf="GFI">________________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Insert media format</i>]</cite>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3221e198">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
IV </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Oct 2010)</ph>. As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1106593"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="15.408.dita#FAR_15_408"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.408</xref>
               </ph>(m),
replace the text of the basic clause with the following:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(a) Submission of certified cost or pricing
data is not required.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(b) Provide data described below:<cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="MultiLine"
                     xtrc="52.215-21_d3213e301"
                     xtrf="GFI">____________________________ <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">[Insert description of the data and the format that are required, including the access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with <xref base="i1106008"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="15.403-3.dita#FAR_15_403_3"
                           outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">15.403-3</xref>
                  </i>.]</cite>
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
