<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_229_14" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.229-14</ph> Taxes—Foreign Contracts
in Afghanistan (North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces
Agreement).</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="29.402-4.dita#FAR_29_402_4"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">29.402-4</xref>(b)</ph>,
use the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3488e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan
(North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement) (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition</i>.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Forces, as used in this
clause, means the Members of the Force, Members of the Civilian
Component, NATO Personnel and all property, equipment, and materiel
of NATO, NATO Member States, and Operational Partners present in
the territory of Afghanistan.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Tax exemption</i>.
This acquisition is covered by the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA)
entered into between NATO and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
(Afghanistan) issued on September 30, 2014, and entered into force
on January 1, 2015.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e34">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The SOFA exempts NATO Forces and
its contractors and subcontractors (other than those that are Afghan
legal entities or residents) from paying any tax or similar charge
assessed by the Government of Afghanistan within Afghanistan if
the activities are on behalf of or in support of NATO Forces. The
SOFA also exempts the acquisition, importation, exportation, reexportation,
transportation, and use of supplies and services in Afghanistan
on behalf of or in support of NATO Forces from all Afghan taxes,
customs, duties, fees, or similar charges.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor
shall exclude any Afghan taxes, customs, duties, fees or similar
charges from the contract price, other than those charged to Afghan
legal entities or residents.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e44">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Afghan
citizens employed by NATO contractors and subcontractors are subject
to Afghan tax laws. To the extent required by Afghan law, the Contractor
shall withhold tax from the wages of these employees and remit those
withholdings to the appropriate Afghan taxing authority. These withholdings
are an individual's liability, not a tax against the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3488e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts</i>.
The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts including
subcontracts for commercial
products or commercial services.
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
