<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_212_2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            xtrc="GFI Editable">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.212-2</ph> 
         Evaluation—Commercial Products
and Commercial Services.
      </title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3159e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="12.301.dita#FAR_12_301"
                     base="i1113145"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">12.301</xref>(c)</ph>, the Contracting
Officer may insert a provision substantially as follows:</p>
         <p id="d3159e16" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Evaluation—Commercial Products and
Commercial Services (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol id="d3124e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3159e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> The
Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation
to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation
will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors
considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3159e23">
                  <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                        xtrc="52.212-2_d3147e36"
                        class="- topic/cite "
                        xtrf="GFI">________________________________________________ ________________________________________________ ________________________________________________[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting
Officer shall insert the significant evaluation factors, such as
(i) technical capability of the item offered to meet the Government
requirement; (ii) price; (iii) past performance (see FAR <xref href="15.304.dita#FAR_15_304"
                              base="i1108563"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.304</xref>); and include them
in the relative order of importance of the evaluation factors, such
as in descending order of importance.</i>]</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3159e32">Technical
and past performance, when combined, are <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                        xtrc="52.212-2_d3147e47"
                        class="- topic/cite "
                        xtrf="GFI">__________
[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer state, in accordance with FAR <xref href="15.304.dita#FAR_15_304"
                              base="i1108563"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.304</xref>, the relative importance
of all other evaluation factors, when combined, when compared to
price.</i>]</cite>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3159e43">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Options</i>.
The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding
the total price for all options to the total price for the basic
requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable
if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of
options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3159e50">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> A written
notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished
to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified
in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further
action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration
time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer),
whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless
a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
