<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_204_29" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.204-29</ph> 
         Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures.
      </title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3102e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="4.2306.dita#FAR_4_2306"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">4.2306</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures (Dec 2023)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3102e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions.</i> As used in this provision, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Covered article, FASCSA order, Intelligence community, National security system, Reasonable inquiry, Sensitive compartmented information, Sensitive compartmented information system,</i> and <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Source</i> have the meaning provided in the clause <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition. </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prohibition.</i> Contractors are prohibited from providing or using as part of the performance of the contract any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the prohibition is set out in an applicable Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act (FASCSA) order, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of FAR <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition. </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Procedures</i>.
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e53">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Offeror shall search for the phrase “FASCSA order” in the System for Award Management (SAM)( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                           <xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                                 format="html"
                                 scope="external"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>)</i> for any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if there is an applicable FASCSA order described in paragraph (b)(1) of FAR <xref href="52.204-30.dita#FAR_52_204_30"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.204-30</xref>, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition. </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e64">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Offeror shall review the solicitation for any FASCSA orders that are not in SAM, but are effective and do apply to the solicitation and resultant contract (see FAR <xref href="4.2303.dita#FAR_4_2303"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">4.2303</xref>(c)(2)). </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e70">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        FASCSA orders issued after the date of solicitation do not apply unless added by an amendment to the solicitation.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e76">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Representation.</i> By submission of this offer, the offeror represents that it has conducted a reasonable inquiry, and that the offeror does not propose to provide or use in response to this solicitation any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the covered article or the source is prohibited by an applicable FASCSA order in effect on the date the solicitation was issued, except as waived by the solicitation, or as disclosed in paragraph (e).
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e84">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Disclosures.</i> The purpose for this disclosure is so the Government may decide whether to issue a waiver. For any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the covered article or the source is subject to an applicable FASCSA order, and the Offeror is unable to represent compliance, then the Offeror shall provide the following information as part of the offer:
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e93">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        Name of the product or service provided to the Government;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e99">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        Name of the covered article or source subject to a FASCSA order;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e105">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        If applicable, name of the vendor, including the Commercial and Government Entity code and unique entity identifier (if known), that supplied the covered article or the product or service to the Offeror;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e111">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        Brand;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e117">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        Model number (original equipment manufacturer number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number);
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e123">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        Item description;
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e129">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        Reason why the applicable covered article or the product or service is being provided or used;
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3109e135">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Executive agency review of disclosures.</i> The contracting officer will review disclosures provided in paragraph (e) to determine if any waiver may be sought. A contracting officer may choose not to pursue a waiver for covered articles or sources otherwise subject to a FASCSA order and may instead make an award to an offeror that does not require a waiver.
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofprovision" class="- topic/p ">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
