<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_217_12" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.217-12</ph> 
          Reverse Auction Services.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e10">As prescribed in<ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="17.805.dita#FAR_17_805"
                     base="i1103156"
                     class="- topic/xref ">17.805</xref>(c)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Reverse Auction Services (Aug 2024) </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e27">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.217-12"
                     xtrc="d1e33"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Government data</i> means any information, document, media, or machine-readable material regardless of physical form or characteristics, that is created or obtained by the Government, in the course of official Government business.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e31">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.217-12"
                     xtrc="d1e38"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Government-related data</i> means any information, document, media, or machine-readable material regardless of physical form or characteristics that is created or obtained by a contractor through the storage, processing, or communication of Government data. This does not include a contractor's business records ( <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> financial records, legal records, etc.) or data such as operating procedures, software coding, or algorithms that are not uniquely applied to the Government data.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e38">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.217-12"
                     xtrc="d1e45"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reverse auction</i> means the process for obtaining pricing, usually supported by an electronic tool, in which offerors see competing offerors' price(s), without disclosure of the competing offeror's identity, and have the opportunity to submit lower priced offers until the close of the auction.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e43">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Duties of the reverse auction service provider.</i> When providing reverse auction services to the Government, the Contractor shall—</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e51">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Not assert or imply that it can or will obtain a Government contract for the participants of a reverse auction;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e56">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Allow entities to register, at no cost, as potential offerors for any reverse auction conducted on behalf of the Government on the provider's reverse auction platform. As part of the registration process, the Contractor shall allow each entity the opportunity to execute a proprietary data protection agreement with the Contractor; however, the Contractor shall not negotiate terms in the agreement that affect the terms and conditions of a Government solicitation or contract;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e61">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Limit access to, use of, and disclosure of Government data and Government-related data.</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e67">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The Contractor shall not access, use, or disclose Government data unless specifically authorized by the terms of this contract or a task order or delivery order issued hereunder.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e72">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> If authorized by the terms of this contract or a task order or delivery order issued hereunder, any access to, or use or disclosure of, Government data shall only be for purposes specified in this contract or task order or delivery order.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e77">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The Contractor shall ensure that its employees are subject to all such access, use, and disclosure prohibitions and obligations.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e82">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> These access, use, and disclosure prohibitions and obligations shall survive the expiration or termination of this contract.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e87">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer promptly of any requests from a third party for access to Government data or Government-related data, including any warrants, seizures, or subpoenas it receives, including those from another Federal, State, or local agency. The Contractor shall cooperate with the Contracting Officer to take all measures to protect Government data and Government-related data from any unauthorized disclosure.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e92">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> Assert no right or license in the data gathered or generated during a reverse auction. Use Government-related data only to manage the operational environment that supports the Government data and for no other purpose unless otherwise permitted with the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e97">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph> Protect from unauthorized use or disclosure and not release outside of the Government any price or proposal information or any source selection information (see Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref>) received by the Contractor in relation to a reverse auction. Price or proposal information shall include, but is not limited to—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e103">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Contractor bid or proposal information, as defined at FAR <xref href="3.104-1.dita#FAR_3_104_1"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">3.104-1</xref>;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e108">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Price or proposal information similarly generated for a task order or delivery order or an order under a blanket purchase agreement; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e113">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Information identified by the reverse auction participant as restricted from duplication, use, or disclosure—in whole or in part—for any purpose other than to evaluate the reverse auction participant's price or proposal;</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e118">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph> Allow offerors to see the successive lowest price(s) offered in the auction without revealing an offeror's identity;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e123">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph> Not participate as an offeror in any reverse auction, which the Contractor is hosting on behalf of the Government. This prohibition includes participation in a reverse auction by any entity with which the Contractor has a relationship that raises an actual or potential conflict of interest;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e128">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph> At the close of each auction—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e134">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Provide the Contracting Officer with the successful offer, along with information that separately identifies the offeror's price and the price for each provider fee or charge included in the total price; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3277e139">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Provide the Contracting Officer with all information and documentation received from reverse auction participants in response to the reverse auction.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
