<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            id="FAR_52_232_16"
            xtrc="GFI">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.232-16</ph> Progress Payments.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e8">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1082151"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="32.502-4.dita#FAR_32_502_4"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.502-4</xref>(a)</ph>, insert
the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Progress Payments (Nov 2021)</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The Government will make progress payments to the Contractor
when requested as work progresses, but not more frequently than
monthly, in amounts of $2,500 or more approved by the Contracting
Officer, under the following conditions:</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e28">
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e21">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph> Computation of amounts.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e38">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e27">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> Unless
the Contractor requests a smaller amount, the Government will compute
each progress payment as 80 percent of the Contractor’s total costs
incurred under this contract whether or not actually paid, plus
financing payments to subcontractors (see paragraph (j) of this
clause), less the sum of all previous progress payments made by
the Government under this contract. The Contracting Officer will
consider cost of money that would be allowable under Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR)<xref base="i1084979"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="31.205-10.dita#FAR_31_205_10"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">31.205-10</xref> as
an incurred cost for progress payment purposes.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e35">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The amount
of financing and other payments for supplies and services purchased
directly for the contract are limited to the amounts that have been
paid by cash, check, or other forms of payment, or that are determined
due and will be paid to subcontractors-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e60">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e41">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> In accordance
with the terms and conditions of a subcontract or invoice; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e46">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Ordinarily
within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor’s payment request
to the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e51">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> The Government
will exclude accrued costs of Contractor contributions under employee
pension plans until actually paid unless-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e90">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e57">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> The Contractor’s
practice is to make contributions to the retirement fund quarterly
or more frequently; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e62">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> The contribution
does not remain unpaid 30 days after the end of the applicable quarter
or shorter payment period (any contribution remaining unpaid shall
be excluded from the Contractor’s total costs for progress payments
until paid).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e67">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph> The Contractor
shall not include the following in total costs for progress payment
purposes in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause:</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e120">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e73">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Costs that
are not reasonable, allocable to this contract, and consistent with
sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e78">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Costs
incurred by subcontractors or suppliers.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e83">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Costs
ordinarily capitalized and subject to depreciation or amortization
except for the properly depreciated or amortized portion of such
costs.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e88">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> Payments
made or amounts payable to subcontractors or suppliers, except for-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e157">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e94">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> Completed
work, including partial deliveries, to which the Contractor has
acquired title; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e99">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> Work under
cost-reimbursement or time-and-material subcontracts to which the
Contractor has acquired title.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e104">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph> The amount
of unliquidated progress payments may exceed neither (i) the progress
payments made against incomplete work (including allowable unliquidated
progress payments to subcontractors) nor (ii) the value, for progress
payment purposes, of the incomplete work. Incomplete work shall
be considered to be the supplies and services required by this contract,
for which delivery and invoicing by the Contractor and acceptance
by the Government are incomplete.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e109">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph> The total
amount of progress payments shall not exceed 80 percent of the total
contract price.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e114">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(7)</ph> If a progress
payment or the unliquidated progress payments exceed the amounts
permitted by paragraphs (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this clause, the Contractor
shall repay the amount of such excess to the Government on demand.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e119">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(8)</ph> Notwithstanding
any other terms of the contract, the Contractor agrees not to request
progress payments in dollar amounts of less than $2,500. The Contracting
Officer may make exceptions.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e124">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(9)</ph> The costs
applicable to items delivered, invoiced, and accepted shall not
include costs in excess of the contract price of the items.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e129">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Liquidation</i>.
Except as provided in the Termination for Convenience of the Government
clause, all progress payments shall be liquidated by deducting from
any payment under this contract, other than advance or progress
payments, the unliquidated progress payments, or 80 percent of the
amount invoiced, whichever is less. The Contractor shall repay to
the Government any amounts required by a retroactive price reduction,
after computing liquidations and payments on past invoices at the
reduced prices and adjusting the unliquidated progress payments
accordingly. The Government reserves the right to unilaterally change
from the ordinary liquidation rate to an alternate rate when deemed
appropriate for proper contract financing.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e136">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Reduction
or suspension</i>. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend
progress payments, increase the rate of liquidation, or take a combination
of these actions, after finding on substantial evidence any of the
following conditions:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e144">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The Contractor failed to comply
with any material requirement of this contract (which includes paragraphs (f)
and (g) of this clause).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e149">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> Performance
of this contract is endangered by the Contractor’s—</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e155">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Failure to
make progress; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e160">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Unsatisfactory
financial condition.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e165">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> Inventory
allocated to this contract substantially exceeds reasonable requirements.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e170">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph> The Contractor
is delinquent in payment of the costs of performing this contract
in the ordinary course of business.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e175">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph> The fair
value of the undelivered work is less than the amount of unliquidated
progress payments for that work.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e180">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph> The Contractor
is realizing less profit than that reflected in the establishment
of any alternate liquidation rate in paragraph (b) of this
clause, and that rate is less than the progress payment rate stated
in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e185">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(d)</ph> Title.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e261">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e191">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> Title
to the property described in this paragraph (d) shall vest in the
Government. Vestiture shall be immediately upon the date of this
contract, for property acquired or produced before that date. Otherwise,
vestiture shall occur when the property is or should have been allocable
or properly chargeable to this contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e196">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> "Property,"
as used in this clause, includes all of the below-described items
acquired or produced by the Contractor that are or should be allocable
or properly chargeable to this contract under sound and generally
accepted accounting principles and practices.</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e280">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e202">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Parts,
materials, inventories, and work in process;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e207">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Special
tooling and special test equipment to which the Government is to
acquire title;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e212">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Nondurable
(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> noncapital) tools, jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns,
taps, gauges, test equipment, and other similar manufacturing aids,
title to which would not be obtained as special tooling under paragraph
(d)(2)(ii) of this clause; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e220">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> Drawings
and technical data, to the extent the Contractor or subcontractors
are required to deliver them to the Government by other clauses
of this contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e225">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> Although
title to property is in the Government under this clause, other
applicable clauses of this contract; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> the termination
clauses, shall determine the handling and disposition of the property.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e233">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph> The Contractor
may sell any scrap resulting from production under this contract
without requesting the Contracting Officer’s approval, but the proceeds
shall be credited against the costs of performance.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e238">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph> To acquire
for its own use or dispose of property to which title is vested
in the Government under this clause, the Contractor must obtain
the Contracting Officer’s advance approval of the action and the
terms. The Contractor shall (i) exclude the allocable costs of the
property from the costs of contract performance, and (ii) repay
to the Government any amount of unliquidated progress payments allocable
to the property. Repayment may be by cash or credit memorandum.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e243">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph> When the
Contractor completes all of the obligations under this contract,
including liquidation of all progress payments, title shall vest
in the Contractor for all property (or the proceeds thereof) not-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e362">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e249">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Delivered
to, and accepted by, the Government under this contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e254">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Incorporated
in supplies delivered to, and accepted by, the Government under
this contract and to which title is vested in the Government under
this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e259">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(7)</ph> The terms
of this contract concerning liability for Government-furnished property
shall not apply to property to which the Government acquired title
solely under this clause.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e264">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Risk
of loss</i>. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government,
the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title
to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the
extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. The Contractor
shall repay the Government an amount equal to the unliquidated progress
payments that are based on costs allocable to property that is lost
(see <xref base="i1073110"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="45.101.dita#FAR_45_101"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">45.101</xref>).</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e274">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(f)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Control
of costs and property</i>. The Contractor shall maintain an accounting
system and controls adequate for the proper administration of this
clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e281">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(g)</ph> Reports,
forms, and access to records.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e431">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e287">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The Contractor
shall promptly furnish reports, certificates, financial statements,
and other pertinent information (including estimates to complete)
reasonably requested by the Contracting Officer for the administration
of this clause. Also, the Contractor shall give the Government reasonable
opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor’s books, records,
and accounts.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e292">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The Contractor
shall furnish estimates to complete that have been developed or
updated within six months of the date of the progress payment request.
The estimates to complete shall represent the Contractor’s best
estimate of total costs to complete all remaining contract work
required under the contract. The estimates shall include sufficient
detail to permit Government verification.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e297">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> Each Contractor
request for progress payment shall:</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e459">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e303">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Be submitted
on Standard Form 1443, Contractor’s Request for Progress Payment,
or the electronic equivalent as required by agency regulations,
in accordance with the form instructions and the contract terms;
and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e308">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Include
any additional supporting documentation requested by the Contracting
Officer.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e313">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(h)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Special
terms regarding default</i>. If this contract is terminated under
the Default clause, (i) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to
the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and
(ii) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of
progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects
not to require delivery under the Default clause. The Government
shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default
clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li " props="Runin">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e320">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Reservations
of rights.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e503">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e326">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> No payment or vesting of title
under this clause shall-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e513">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e332">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Excuse the Contractor from performance
of obligations under this contract; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e337">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Constitute
a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the parties under the
contract.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e342">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The Government’s
rights and remedies under this clause-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e543">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e348">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Shall not
be exclusive but rather shall be in addition to any other rights
and remedies provided by law or this contract; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e353">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Shall
not be affected by delayed, partial, or omitted exercise of any
right, remedy, power, or privilege, nor shall such exercise or any
single exercise preclude or impair any further exercise under this
clause or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege of
the Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e358">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(j)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Financing
payments to subcontractors.</i> The financing payments to subcontractors
mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this clause shall be
all financing payments to subcontractors or divisions, if the following
conditions are met:</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e578">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e366">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph> The amounts included are limited
to-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e588">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e372">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> The unliquidated remainder of
financing payments made; plus</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e377">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Any unpaid
subcontractor requests for financing payments.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e382">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph> The subcontract
or interdivisional order is expected to involve a minimum of approximately
6 months between the beginning of work and the first delivery; or,
if the subcontractor is a small business concern, 4 months.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e387">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(3)</ph> If the
financing payments are in the form of progress payments, the terms
of the subcontract or interdivisional order concerning progress
payments-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e627">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e393">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Are substantially similar to the
terms of this clause for any subcontractor that is a large business
concern, or this clause with its Alternate I for any subcontractor
that is a small business concern;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e398">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Are at
least as favorable to the Government as the terms of this clause;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e403">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Are
not more favorable to the subcontractor or division than the terms
of this clause are to the Contractor;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e408">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iv)</ph> Are in
conformance with the requirements of FAR <xref base="i1082458"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="32.504.dita#FAR_32_504"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.504</xref>(e); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e416">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(v)</ph> Subordinate
all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government
has title under the subcontract to the Government’s right to require
delivery of the property to the Government if-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e676">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e422">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> The Contractor
defaults; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e427">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> The subcontractor
becomes bankrupt or insolvent.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e432">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(4)</ph> If the
financing payments are in the form of performance-based payments,
the terms of the subcontract or interdivisional order concerning
payments-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e708">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e438">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Are substantially similar to the
Performance-Based Payments clause at FAR <xref base="i1050610"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="52.232-32.dita#FAR_52_232_32"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">52.232-32</xref> and meet the
criteria for, and definition of, performance-based payments in FAR <xref base="i1083955"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="Part_32.dita#FAR_Part_32"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part">part  32</xref>;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e449">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Are in
conformance with the requirements of FAR <xref base="i1082458"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="32.504.dita#FAR_32_504"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.504</xref>(f); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e457">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Subordinate
all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government
has title under the subcon-</p>
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e461">tract to the
Government’s right to require delivery of the property to the Government
if-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e748">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e465">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> The Contractor defaults; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e470">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> The subcontractor
becomes bankrupt or insolvent.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e475">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(5)</ph> If the
financing payments are in the form of commercial product or commercial service financing
payments, the terms of the subcontract or interdivisional order
concerning payments-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e789">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e481">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(i)</ph> Are constructed in accordance
with FAR <xref base="i1083258"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="32.206.dita#FAR_32_206"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.206</xref>(c) and included
in a subcontract for a commercial product
or commercial service purchase that meets the definition and standards
for acquisition of commercial products and commercial services in FAR <xref base="i1126310"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="Part_2.dita#FAR_Part_2"
                                    outputclass="fm:Parts">parts  2</xref>
                               and <xref base="i1113784"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="Part_12.dita#FAR_Part_12"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">12</xref>;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e495">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(ii)</ph> Are in
conformance with the requirements of FAR <xref base="i1082458"
                                    class="- topic/xref "
                                    href="32.504.dita#FAR_32_504"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.504</xref>(g); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e503">
                              <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(iii)</ph> Subordinate
all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government
has title under the subcontract to the Government’s right to require
delivery of the property to the Government if-</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3470e829">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e509">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(A)</ph> The Contractor
defaults; or</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e514">
                                    <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(B)</ph> The subcontractor
becomes bankrupt or insolvent.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e519">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(6)</ph> If financing
is in the form of progress payments, the progress payment rate in
the subcontract is the customary rate used by the contracting agency,
depending on whether the subcontractor is or is not a small business
concern.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e524">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(7)</ph> Concerning
any proceeds received by the Government for property to which title
has vested in the Government under the subcontract terms, the parties
agree that the proceeds shall be applied to reducing any unliquidated
financing payments by the Government to the Contractor under this
contract.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e529">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(8)</ph> If no
unliquidated financing payments to the Contractor remain, but there
are unliquidated financing payments that the Contractor has made
to any subcontractor, the Contractor shall be subrogated to all
the rights the Government obtained through the terms required by
this clause to be in any subcontract, as if all such rights had
been assigned and transferred to the Contractor.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e534">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(9)</ph> To facilitate
small business participation in subcontracting under this contract,
the Contractor shall provide financing payments to small business
concerns, in conformity with the standards for customary contract
financing payments stated in FAR <xref base="i1083846"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              href="32.113.dita#FAR_32_113"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.113</xref>.
The Contractor shall not consider the need for such financing payments
as a handicap or adverse factor in the award of subcontracts.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e542">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(k)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Limitations
on undefinitized contract actions</i>. Notwithstanding any other
progress payment provisions in this contract, progress payments
may not exceed 80 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished
under undefinitized contract actions. A "contract action" is any
action resulting in a contract, as defined in <xref base="i1125357"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="Subpart_2.1.dita#FAR_Subpart_2_1"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart">subpart  2.1</xref>, including
contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but
not including contract modifications that are within the scope and
under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications
issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or funding and other administrative changes.
This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, and shall remain in
effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs incurred
which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor
progress payment requests and invoices from those costs eligible
for higher progress payment rates. For purposes of progress payment
liquidation, as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, progress
payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated
at 80 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the
undefinitized contract action as long as the contract action remains
undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for
undefinitized contract actions shall not exceed 80 percent of the
maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract
action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract.
Separate limits may be specified for separate actions.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e553">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(l)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Due
date</i>. The designated payment office will make progress payments
on the <cite class="- topic/cite "
                        outputclass="SingleLine"
                        xtrc="52.232-16_d3494e978"
                        xtrf="GFI">_________
[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer insert date as prescribed by agency head;
if not prescribed, insert "30th"</i>]</cite> day after the designated
billing office receives a proper progress payment request. In the
event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a
specific progress payment request to ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office
is not compelled to make payment by the specified due date. Progress
payments are considered contract financing and are not subject to
the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e566">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(m)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Progress
payments under indefinite-delivery contracts</i>. The Contractor
shall account for and submit progress payment requests under individual
orders as if the order constituted a separate contract, unless otherwise
specified in this contract.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate"><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3512e576">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Mar 2000)</ph>. If the contract is with a small business concern,
change each mention of the progress payment and liquidation rates
excepting paragraph (k) to the customary rate of 85 percent for
small business concerns (see FAR <xref base="i1082067"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="32.501-1.dita#FAR_32_501_1"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.501-1</xref>).</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3510e587">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
II </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps">(Apr 2003)</ph>. If the contract is a letter contract, add paragraphs
(n) and (o). The amount specified in paragraph (o) shall not exceed
80 percent of the maximum liability of the Government under the
letter contract. The contracting officer may specify separate limits
for separate parts of the work.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(n)
The Contracting Officer will liquidate progress payments made under
this letter contract, unless previously liquidated under paragraph
(b) of this clause, using the following procedures:</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(1) If this letter contract is superseded
by a definitive contract, unliquidated progress payments made under
this letter contract shall be liquidated by deducting the amount
from the first progress or other payments made under the definitive contract.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(2) If this letter contract is not superseded
by a definitive contract calling for the furnishing of all or part
of the articles or services covered under the letter contract, unliquidated
progress payments made under the letter contract shall be liquidated
by deduction from the amount payable under the Termination clause.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(3) If this letter contract is partly
terminated and partly superseded by a contract, the Government will
allocate the unliquidated progress payments to the terminated and
unterminated portions as the Government deems equitable, and will liquidate
each portion under the relevant procedure in paragraphs (n)(1) and
(n)(2) of this clause.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List2">(4) If the method
of liquidating progress payments provided in this clause does not
result in full liquidation, the Contractor shall immediately pay
the unliquidated balance to the Government on demand.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1">(o) The amount of unliquidated progress
payments shall not exceed <cite class="- topic/cite "
                     outputclass="SingleLine"
                     xtrc="52.232-16_d3494e1051"
                     xtrf="GFI">_____________ [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting
Officer specify dollar amount</i>]</cite>.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3514e610">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
III</i>
               <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(Jun 2020)</ph>. As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1082151"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="32.502-4.dita#FAR_32_502_4"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">32.502-4</xref>
               </ph>(d), add the following
paragraph (n) to the basic clause. If Alternate II is also being
used, redesignate the following paragraph as paragraph (p):</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3503e633" outputclass="List1">(n) The provisions of
this clause will not be applicable to individual orders at or below
the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR <xref base="i1125359"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">2.101</xref> on the date of individual
order award.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
