<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="FAR_52_203_6"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.203-6</ph> Restrictions on Subcontractor
Sales to the Government.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="prescribed" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3061e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="3.503-2.dita#FAR_3_503_2"
                     base="i1124399"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">3.503-2</xref>
            </ph>, insert the
following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales
to the Government (Jun 2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3031e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3061e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> Except
as provided in (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not enter
into any agreement with an actual or prospective subcontractor,
nor otherwise act in any manner, which has or may have the effect
of restricting sales by such subcontractors directly to the Government
of any item or process (including computer software) made or furnished
by the subcontractor under this contract or under any follow-on
production contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3061e23">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The prohibition
in (a) of this clause does not preclude the Contractor from asserting
rights that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3061e28">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The Contractor
agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this
paragraph (c), in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed
the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition
Regulation <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                        base="i1125359"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> on the date of subcontract
award.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p id="d3061e39" class="- topic/p ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate
I</i> 
               (Nov 2021). As
prescribed in <xref href="3.503-2.dita#FAR_3_503_2"
                     base="i1124399"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">3.503-2</xref>, substitute the
following paragraph in place of paragraph (b) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p id="d3061e48" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The prohibition in
paragraph (a) of this clause does not preclude the Contractor from
asserting rights that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation.
For acquisitions of commercial
products or commercial services). the prohibition in paragraph
(a) applies only to the extent that any agreement restricting sales
by subcontractors results in the Federal Government being treated
differently from any other prospective purchaser for the sale of
the commercial product(s)
and commercial service(s).
            </p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
