<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_247_63" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.247-63</ph> Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        href="47.405.dita#FAR_47_405"
                        base="i1070062"
                        class="- topic/xref ">47.405</xref>(a) </ph>,
            </ph> insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers (Jan 2025)</p>
         <ol id="d3697e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>. As used in this clause-</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e24">"International air transportation" means transportation by air between a place in the United States and a place outside the United States or between two places both of which are outside the United States.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e26">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.247-63"
                     xtrc="d3732e43"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">United States</i> means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e30">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.247-63"
                     xtrc="d1e48"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">U.S.-flag air carrier</i>
                     means an entity granted authority to provide air transportation in the form of a certificate of public convenience and necessity under <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section41102&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">49 U.S.C. 41102</xref>.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">U.S. Government-financed international air transportation.</i>
                  <xref href="https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section40118&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external"
                        class="- topic/xref ">49 U.S.C. 40118</xref>, Government-financed air transportation (commonly referred to as the Fly America Act), requires that all Federal agencies and Government contractors and subcontractors use U.S.-flag air carriers for U.S. Government-financed international air transportation of personnel (and their personal effects) or property, to the extent that service by those carriers is available. It requires the General Services Administration to issue regulations that, in the absence of satisfactory proof of the necessity for foreign-flag air transportation, disallow expenditures from funds, appropriated or otherwise established for the account of the United States, for international air transportation secured aboard a foreign-flag air carrier if a U.S.-flag air carrier is available to provide such services.
               </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e44">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of U.S.-flag carriers for international air transportation.</i>
                     
                   If available, the Contractor, in performing work under this contract, shall use U.S.-flag carriers for international air transportation of personnel (and their personal effects) or property.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e49">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Statement of unavailability of U.S.-flag air carriers.</i>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of U.S.-flag carriers for international air transportation.</i>
                     
                   In the event that the Contractor selects a carrier other than a U.S.-flag air carrier for international air transportation, the Contractor shall include a statement on vouchers involving such transportation essentially as follows:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e53">Statement of Unavailability of U.S.-Flag Air Carriers</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e55">International air transportation of persons (and their personal effects) or property by U.S.-flag air carrier was not available or it was necessary to use foreign-flag air carrier service for the following reasons (see section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        href="47.403.dita#FAR_47_403"
                        base="i1069973"
                        class="- topic/xref ">47.403</xref> of the Federal Acquisition Regulation): <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                        xtrc="52.247-63_d3721e86"
                        class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">State reasons</i>]:__________________________________________________</cite>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e65">(End of statement)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3741e68">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts.</i>
                     
                   The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in each subcontract or purchase under this contract that may involve international air transportation.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
