<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_207_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.207-1</ph> Notice of Standard Competition.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3105e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="7.305.dita#FAR_7_305"
                     base="i1118673"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">7.305</xref>(a)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3105e15">Notice of Standard Competition <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(May 2006)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3071e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3105e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            This solicitation is part of a standard competition under Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 (Revised), Performance of Commercial Activities, dated May 29, 2003 (hereafter "the Circular"), to determine whether to accomplish the specified work under contract or by Government performance.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3105e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            The Government will evaluate private sector offers, the agency tender, and public reimbursable tenders, as provided in this solicitation and the Circular.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3105e31">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            A performance decision resulting from this standard competition will be publicly announced in accordance with the Circular. If the performance decision favors a private sector offeror, a contract will be awarded. If the performance decision favors an agency or a public reimbursable tender, the Contracting Officer shall establish, respectively, either a Most Efficient Organization letter of obligation or a fee-for-service agreement, as those terms are defined in the Circular.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3105e36">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            As provided in the Circular, directly interested parties may file contests, which are governed by the procedures in Federal Acquisition Regulation <xref href="33.103.dita#FAR_33_103"
                        base="i1080465"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">33.103</xref>. Until resolution of any contest, or the expiration of the time for filing a contest, only legal agents for directly interested parties shall have access to the certified standard competition form, the agency tender, and public reimbursable tenders.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
