<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_230_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.230-4</ph> Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices-Foreign Concerns.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="30.201-4.dita#FAR_30_201_4"
                     base="FAR_30_201_4"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">30.201-4</xref>(c)(1)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices-Foreign Concerns (Jun 2020)</p>
         <ol id="d3449e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						             The Contractor, in connection with this contract, shall-</p>
               <ol id="d3449e35" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e25">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                 Comply with the requirements of <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9904.401</ph>, Consistency in Estimating, Accumulating, and Reporting Costs; and <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9904.402</ph>, Consistency in Allocating Costs Incurred for the Same Purpose, in effect on the date of award of this contract, as indicated in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9904</ph>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e39">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                 (Cost Accounting Standard (CAS)-covered Contracts Only). If it is a business unit of a company required to submit a Disclosure Statement, disclose in writing its cost accounting practices as required by <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9903.202-1</ph> through <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9903.202-5</ph>. If the Contractor has notified the Contracting Officer that the Disclosure Statement contains trade secrets and commercial or financial information which is privileged and confidential, the Disclosure Statement shall be protected and shall not be released outside of the U.S. Government.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e50">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3449e63" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e55">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                     Follow consistently the Contractor’s cost accounting practices. A change to such practices may be proposed, however, by either the U.S. Government or the Contractor, and the Contractor agrees to negotiate with the Contracting Officer the terms and conditions under which a change may be made. After the terms and conditions under which the change is to be made have been agreed to, the change must be applied prospectively to this contract, and the Disclosure Statement, if affected, must be amended accordingly.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e60">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                     The Contractor shall, when the parties agree to a change to a cost accounting practice and the Contracting Officer has made the finding required in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9903.201-6(c)</ph> that the change is desirable and not detrimental to the interests of the U.S. Government, negotiate an equitable adjustment as provided in the Changes clause of this contract. In the absence of the required finding, no agreement may be made under this contract clause that will increase costs paid by the U.S. Government.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e68">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
								                 Agree to an adjustment of the contract price or cost allowance, as appropriate, if the Contractor or a subcontractor fails to comply with the applicable CAS or to follow any cost accounting practice, and such failure results in any increased costs paid by the U.S. Government. Such adjustment shall provide for recovery of the increased costs to the U.S. Government, together with interest thereon computed at the annual rate established under section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section6621(a)(2)&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">26 U.S.C. 6621(a)(2)</xref>) for such period, from the time the payment by the U.S. Government was made to the time the adjustment is effected.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e76">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						             If the parties fail to agree whether the Contractor has complied with an applicable CAS rule, or regulation as specified in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9903</ph> and <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9904</ph> and as to any cost adjustment demanded by the U.S. Government, such failure to agree will constitute a dispute under <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title41-chapter71&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">41 U.S.C. chapter 71</xref>, Contract Disputes.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e90">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						             The Contractor shall permit any authorized representatives of the U.S. Government to examine and make copies of any documents, papers, and records relating to compliance with the requirements of this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e95">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						             The Contractor shall include in all negotiated subcontracts, which the Contractor enters into, the substance of this clause, except paragraph (b), and shall require such inclusion in all other subcontracts of any tier, except that—</p>
               <ol id="d3449e128" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e101">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                 If the subcontract is awarded to a business unit which pursuant to <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9903.201-2</ph> is subject to other types of CAS coverage, the substance of the applicable clause prescribed in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) <xref href="30.201-4.dita#FAR_30_201_4"
                              base="FAR_30_201_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">30.201-4</xref> shall be inserted.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e112">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                 The requirement in this paragraph (d) shall apply only to negotiated subcontracts in excess of the lower CAS threshold specified in FAR <xref href="30.201-4.dita#FAR_30_201_4"
                              base="FAR_30_201_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">30.201-4</xref>(b) on the date of subcontract award.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3493e120">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
								                 The requirement shall not apply to negotiated subcontracts otherwise exempt from the requirement to include a CAS clause as specified in <ph outputclass="CFR" class="- topic/ph ">48 CFR 9903.201-1</ph>.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
