<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_204_21" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.204-21</ph> Basic Safeguarding
of Covered Contractor Information Systems.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="4.1903.dita#FAR_4_1903"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">4.1903</xref>
            </ph>,
insert the following clause:</p>
         <p id="d3096e14" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p ">Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor
Information Systems (Nov 2021)</p>
         <ol id="d3066e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e18">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>.
As used in this clause—</p>
               <ul class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e26">
                        <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-21" xtrc="d3093e44">Covered
contractor information system</i> means an information system that
is owned or operated by a contractor that processes, stores, or
transmits Federal contract information.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e31">
                        <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-21" xtrc="d3093e53">Federal contract information</i> means information,
not intended for public release, that is provided by or generated
for the Government under a contract to develop or deliver a product
or service to the Government, but not including information provided by
the Government to the public (such as on public websites) or simple
transactional information, such as necessary to process payments.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e36">
                        <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-21" xtrc="d3093e62">Information</i> means any communication
or representation of knowledge such as facts, data, or opinions,
in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic,
narrative, or audiovisual (Committee on National Security Systems Instruction
(CNSSI) 4009).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e41">
                        <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-21" xtrc="d3093e71">Information system</i> means a discrete
set of information resources organized for the collection, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information
(<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3502&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                              scope="external"
                              format="html">44 U.S.C. 3502</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e49">
                        <i outputclass="Term" xtrf="_52.204-21" xtrc="d3093e83">Safeguarding</i> means measures or controls
that are prescribed to protect information systems.</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e54">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> Safeguarding
requirements and procedures.</p>
               <ol id="d3066e83" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e60">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Contractor
shall apply the following basic safeguarding requirements and procedures
to protect covered contractor information systems. Requirements
and procedures for basic safeguarding of covered contractor information systems
shall include, at a minimum, the following security controls:</p>
                     <ol id="d3066e93" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e66">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Limit
information system access to authorized users, processes acting
on behalf of authorized users, or devices (including other information
systems).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e71">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> Limit
information system access to the types of transactions and functions
that authorized users are permitted to execute.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e76">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> Verify
and control/limit connections to and use of external information
systems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e81">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Control
information posted or processed on publicly accessible information
systems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e86">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph> Identify
information system users, processes acting on behalf of users, or
devices.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e91">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph> Authenticate
(or verify) the identities of those users, processes, or devices,
as a prerequisite to allowing access to organizational information
systems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e96">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph> Sanitize
or destroy information system media containing Federal Contract
Information before disposal or release for reuse.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e101">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph> Limit
physical access to organizational information systems, equipment,
and the respective operating environments to authorized individuals.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e106">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ix)</ph> Escort
visitors and monitor visitor activity; maintain audit logs of physical
access; and control and manage physical access devices.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e111">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(x)</ph> Monitor,
control, and protect organizational communications (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e</i>.,
information transmitted or received by organizational information
systems) at the external boundaries and key internal boundaries
of the information systems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e119">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xi)</ph> Implement
subnetworks for publicly accessible system components that are physically
or logically separated from internal networks.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e125">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xii)</ph> Identify,
report, and correct information and information system flaws in
a timely manner.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e130">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xiii)</ph> Provide
protection from malicious code at appropriate locations within organizational
information systems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e135">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xiv)</ph> Update
malicious code protection mechanisms when new releases are available.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e140">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(xv)</ph> Perform
periodic scans of the information system and real-time scans of
files from external sources as files are downloaded, opened, or
executed.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e145">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Other
requirements.</i> This clause does not relieve the Contractor of
any other specific safeguarding requirements specified by Federal
agencies and departments relating to covered contractor information
systems generally or other Federal safeguarding requirements for
controlled unclassified information (CUI) as established by Executive
Order 13556.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3096e152">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts.</i> The
Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (c), in subcontracts under this contract (including
subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or
commercial services, other than commercially available off-the-shelf
items), in which the subcontractor may have Federal contract information
residing in or transiting through its information system.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
