<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept class="- topic/topic concept/concept " id="FAR_52_233_3" xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.233-3</ph> Protest after Award.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e8">As prescribed in <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF">
               <xref base="i1080584"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="33.106.dita#FAR_33_106"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">33.106</xref>(b)</ph>, insert the following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Protest after Award <ph class="- topic/ph " outputclass="SmCaps">(Aug 1996)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3498e25">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e21">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(a)</ph>
						            Upon receipt of a notice of protest (as defined in FAR <xref base="i1080401"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="33.101.dita#FAR_33_101"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">33.101</xref>) or a determination that a protest is likely (see FAR <xref base="i1080417"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="33.102.dita#FAR_33_102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">33.102</xref>(d)), the Contracting Officer may, by written order to the Contractor, direct the Contractor to stop performance of the work called for by this contract. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stop-page. Upon receipt of the final decision in the protest, the Contracting Officer shall either-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3498e41">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e33">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph>
								                Cancel the stop-work order; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e38">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph>
								                Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e43">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(b)</ph>
						            If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled either before or after a final decision in the protest, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if-</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol " id="d3498e71">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e49">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(1)</ph>
								                The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor’s cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e54">
                        <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(2)</ph>
								                The Contractor asserts its right to an adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">provided</i>, that if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal at any time before final payment under this contract.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e62">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(c)</ph>
						            If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e67">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(d)</ph>
						            If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e72">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(e)</ph>
						            The Government’s rights to terminate this contract at any time are not affected by action taken under this clause.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3542e77">
                  <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">(f)</ph>
						            If, as the result of the Contractor’s intentional or negligent misstatement, misrepresentation, or miscertification, a protest related to this contract is sustained, and the Government pays costs, as provided in FAR <xref base="i1080417"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="33.102.dita#FAR_33_102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">33.102</xref>(b)(2) or <xref base="i1080497"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="33.104.dita#FAR_33_104"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">33.104</xref>(h)(1), the Government may require the Contractor to reimburse the Government the amount of such costs. In addition to any other remedy available, and pursuant to the requirements of <xref base="i1081755"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="Subpart_32.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_6"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart">subpart  32.6</xref>, the Government may collect this debt by offsetting the amount against any payment due the Contractor under any contract between the Contractor and the Government.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
         <?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
         <section class="- topic/section " outputclass="Alternate">
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3540e92">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I </i>(June1985). As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1080584"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        href="33.106.dita#FAR_33_106"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">33.106</xref>
               </ph>(b), substitute in paragraph (a)(2) the words "the Termination clause of this contract" for the words "the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause of this contract." In paragraph (b) substitute the words "an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule, the estimated cost, the fee, or a combination thereof, and in any other terms of the contract that may be affected" for the words "an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both."</p>
         </section>
         <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
