<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_222_4" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.222-4</ph> Contract Work Hours
and Safety Standards -Overtime Compensation.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e8">As prescribed
in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="22.305.dita#FAR_22_305"
                     base="i1098333"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">22.305</xref>
            </ph>, insert the
following clause:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e14" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Contract Work Hours
and Safety Standards-Overtime Compensation <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(May
2018)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3273e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Overtime
requirements</i>. No Contractor or subcontractor employing laborers
or mechanics (see Federal Acquisition Regulation <xref href="22.300.dita#FAR_22_300"
                        base="i1098306"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">22.300</xref>) shall require
or permit them to work over 40 hours in any workweek unless they
are paid at least 1 and 1/2 times the basic rate of pay for each
hour worked over 40 hours.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e30">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Violation;
liability for unpaid wages; liquidated damages</i>. The responsible
Contractor and subcontractor are liable for unpaid wages if they
violate the terms in paragraph (a) of this clause. In addition,
the Contractor and subcontractor are liable for liquidated damages
payable to the Government. The Contracting Officer will assess liquidated
damages at the rate specified at 29 CFR <xref href="Subpart_5.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_5_5"
                        base="i1120403"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">5.5</xref>(b)(2) per affected
employee for each calendar day on which the employer required or permitted
the employee to work in excess of the standard workweek of 40 hours
without paying overtime wages required by the Contract Work Hours
and Safety Standards statute (found at <xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title40-chapter37&amp;saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU0MC1jaGFwdGVyMzctZnJvbnQ%3D%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">40 U.S.C. chapter 37</xref>).
In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment
Act of 1990 (<xref href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2461&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html">28 U.S.C. 2461</xref> Note),
the Department of Labor adjusts this civil monetary penalty for
inflation no later than January 15 each year.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e46">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Withholding
for unpaid wages and liquidated damages</i>. The Contracting Officer
will withhold from payments due under the contract sufficient funds
required to satisfy any Contractor or subcontractor liabilities
for unpaid wages and liquidated damages. If amounts withheld under
the contract are insufficient to satisfy Contractor or subcontractor
liabilities, the Contracting Officer will withhold payments from
other Federal or federally assisted contracts held by the same Contractor
that are subject to the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards
statute</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e53">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph> Payrolls
and basic records. </p>
               <ol id="d3273e77" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e59">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The Contractor and its subcontractors
shall maintain payrolls and basic payroll records for all laborers
and mechanics working on the contract during the contract and shall
make them available to the Government until 3 years after contract
completion. The records shall contain the name and address of each employee,
social security number, labor classifications, hourly rates of wages
paid, daily and weekly number of hours worked, deductions made,
and actual wages paid. The records need not duplicate those required
for construction work by Department of Labor regulations at 29 CFR <xref href="Subpart_5.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_5_5"
                              base="i1120403"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">5.5</xref>(a)(3) implementing
the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e67">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor
and its subcontractors shall allow authorized representatives of
the Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor to inspect, copy,
or transcribe records maintained under paragraph (d)(1) of this
clause. The Contractor or subcontractor also shall allow authorized
representatives of the Contracting Officer or Department of Labor to
interview employees in the workplace during working hours.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3312e72">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Subcontracts</i>.
The Contractor shall insert the provisions set forth in paragraphs
(a) through (d) of this clause in subcontracts that may require
or involve the employment of laborers and mechanics and require
subcontractors to include these provisions in any such lower tier
subcontracts. The Contractor shall be responsible for compliance
by any subcontractor or lower-tier subcontractor with the provisions
set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
