<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_225_23"
            xtrc="GFI VFI"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.225-23</ph> Required Use of American Iron, Steel,
         and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials
         under Trade Agreements.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref base="i1090904"
                     href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">25.1102</xref>(e)</ph>, insert the following
            clause:</p>
         <p id="d3422e15" outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p "> Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and
            Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials under
            Trade Agreements (Nov 2023)</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e19">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions</i>. As used in this
                  clause—</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e25">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e40"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Component</i> means an article,
                  material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction
                  material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e29">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e46"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction material</i> means an
                  article, material, or supply brought to the construction site
                  by the Contractor or subcontractor for incorporation into the
                  building or work. The term also includes an item brought to
                  the site preassembled from articles, materials, or supplies.
                  However, emergency lifes afety systems, such as emergency
                  lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are
                  discrete systems incorporated into a public building or work
                  and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as a
                  single and distinct construction material regardless of when
                  or how the individual parts or components of those systems are
                  delivered to the construction site.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e33">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e52"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Designated country</i> means any of
                  the following countries:<ol id="d3382e29" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e39">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A World Trade Organization
                        Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country
                        (Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
                        Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
                        Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong,
                        Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea
                        (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
                        Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New
                        Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
                        Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain,
                        Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United
                        Kingdom);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e44">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A Free Trade Agreement
                        (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia,
                        Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
                        Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco,
                        Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Peru, or Singapore);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e49">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> A least developed country
                        (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina
                        Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
                        Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti,
                        Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea,
                        Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia,
                        Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal,
                        Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
                        Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan,
                        Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu,
                        Yemen, or Zambia); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e54">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> A Caribbean Basin country
                        (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
                        Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica,
                        Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St.
                        Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the
                        Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or Trinidad
                        and Tobago).</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e58">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d27e61"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Designated country construction
                  material</i> means a construction material that is a WTO GPA
                  country construction material, an FTA country construction
                  material, a least developed country construction material, or
                  a Caribbean Basin country construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e62">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d27e65"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Domestic construction material</i>
                  means the following:<ol id="d3382e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e68">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> An unmanufactured
                        construction material mined or produced in the United
                        States. (The Buy American statute applies.)</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e73">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A manufactured construction
                        material that is manufactured in the United States and,
                        if the construction material consists wholly or
                        predominantly of iron or steel, the iron or steel was
                        produced in the United States. (Section 1605 of the
                        Recovery Act applies.)</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e77">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e128"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Foreign construction material</i>
                  means a construction material other than a domestic
                  construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e81">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e134"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Free trade agreement (FTA) country
                  construction material</i> means a construction material that-<ol id="d3382e130" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e87">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of an FTA country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e92">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in an FTA country into a new
                        and different construction material distinct from the
                        materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e96">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e161"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Least developed country
                  construction material</i> means a construction material that-<ol id="d3382e154" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e102">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of a least developed country;
                        or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e107">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in a least developed country
                        into a new and different construction material distinct
                        from the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e111">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e189"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Manufactured construction
                  material</i> means any construction material that is not
                  unmanufactured construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e115">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e195"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Nondesignated country</i> means a
                  country other than the United States or a designated
                  country.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e120">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e201"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Recovery Act designated country</i>
                  means any of the following countries:<ol id="d3382e185" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e126">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> A World Trade Organization
                        Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country
                        (Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
                        Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
                        Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong,
                        Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea
                        (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
                        Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New
                        Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore,
                        Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
                        Taiwan, Ukraine, or United Kingdom);</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e131">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> A Free Trade Agreement
                        country (FTA) (Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia,
                        Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
                        Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco,
                        Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Peru, or Singapore); or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e136">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> A least developed country
                        (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina
                        Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
                        Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti,
                        Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea,
                        Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia,
                        Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal,
                        Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
                        Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan,
                        Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu,
                        Yemen, or Zambia).</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e140">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d1e249"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Recovery Act designated country
                  construction material</i> means a construction material that
                  is a WTO GPA country construction material, an FTA country
                  construction material, or a least developed country
                  construction material.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e144">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e243"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Steel</i> means an alloy that
                  includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent
                  carbon, and may include other elements.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e148">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e250"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">United States</i> means the 50
                  States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e152">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e256"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Unmanufactured construction
                  material</i> means raw material brought to the construction
                  site for incorporation into the building or work that has not been-<ol id="d3382e227" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e158">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Processed into a specific
                        form and shape; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e163">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> Combined with other raw
                        material to create a material that has different
                        properties than the properties of the individual raw
                        materials.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e167">
                  <i outputclass="Term"
                     xtrf="_52.225-23"
                     xtrc="d3417e283"
                     class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">WTO GPA country construction
                  material</i> means a construction material that-<ol id="d3382e251" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e173">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or</p>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">
                        <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e178">
                           <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in a WTO GPA country into a
                        new and different construction material distinct from
                        the materials from which it was transformed.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e183">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction materials.</i>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3382e290" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e190">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The restrictions of section
                        1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
                        2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) do not apply to
                        Recovery Act designated country manufactured
                        construction material. The restrictions of the Buy
                        American statute do not apply to designated country
                        unmanufactured construction material. Consistent with
                        U.S. obligations under international agreements, this
                        clause implements-</p>
                     <ol id="d3382e300" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e196">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Section 1605 of the
                              Recovery Act by requiring, unless an exception
                              applies, that all manufactured construction
                              material in the project is manufactured in the
                              United States and, if the construction material
                              consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel,
                              the iron or steel was produced in the United
                              States (produced in the United States means that
                              all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel
                              must take place in the United States, except
                              metallurgical processes involving refinement of
                              steel additives); and.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e201">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The Buy American
                              statute by providing a preference for
                              unmanufactured construction material mined or
                              produced in the United States over unmanufactured
                              construction material mined or produced in a
                              nondesignated country.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e206">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The Contractor shall use
                        only domestic construction material, Recovery Act
                        designated country manufactured construction material,
                        or designated country unmanufactured construction
                        material in performing this contract, except as provided
                        in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e211">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The requirement in
                        paragraph (b)(2) of this clause does not apply to the
                        construction materials or components listed by the
                        Government as follows:</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e215">
                        <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                              xtrc="52.225-23_d3406e332"
                              xtrf="GFI"
                              class="- topic/cite ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Officer to list
                        applicable excepted materials or indicate
                        "none".</i>]</cite>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e222">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The Contracting Officer may
                        add other construction material to the list in paragraph
                        (b)(3) of this clause if the Government determines
                        that-</p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e228">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> The cost of domestic
                              construction material would be unreasonable;</p>
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e234">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> The cost of
                                    domestic manufactured construction material
                                    is unreasonable when the cumulative cost of
                                    such material, when compared to the cost of
                                    comparable foreign manufactured construction
                                    material, other than Recovery Act designated
                                    country construction material, will increase
                                    the overall cost of the contract by more
                                    than 25 percent;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e239">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> The cost of
                                    domestic unmanufactured construction
                                    material is unreasonable when the cost of
                                    such material exceeds the cost of comparable
                                    foreign unmanufactured construction
                                    material, other than designated country
                                    construction material, by more than 20
                                    percent; </p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e244">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> The construction
                              material is not mined, produced, or manufactured
                              in the United States in sufficient and reasonably
                              available commercial quantities of a satisfactory
                              quality; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e249">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The application of
                              the restriction of section 1605 of the Recovery
                              Act to a particular manufactured construction
                              material would be inconsistent with the public
                              interest or the application of the Buy American
                              statute to a particular unmanufactured
                              construction material would be impracticable or
                              inconsistent with the public interest.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e254">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Request for determination of
                  inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy
                  American statute</i>.</p>
               <ol id="d3382e366" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e262">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                     </p>
                     <ol id="d3382e376" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e267">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> Any Contractor
                              request to use foreign construction material in
                              accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause
                              shall include adequate information for Government
                              evaluation of the request, including-</p>
                           <ol id="d3382e386" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e273">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph> A description
                                    of the foreign and domestic construction
                                    materials;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e278">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph> Unit of
                                    measure;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e283">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(C)</ph> Quantity;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e288">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(D)</ph> Cost;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e293">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(E)</ph> Time of
                                    delivery or availability;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e298">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(F)</ph> Location of the
                                    construction project;</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e303">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(G)</ph> Name and
                                    address of the proposed supplier; and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e308">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(H)</ph> A detailed
                                    justification of the reason for use of
                                    foreign construction materials cited in
                                    accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this
                                    clause.</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e313">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph> A request based on
                              unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable
                              survey of the market and a completed cost
                              comparison table in the format in paragraph (d) of
                              this clause.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e318">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph> The cost of
                              construction material shall include all delivery
                              costs to the construction site and any applicable
                              duty.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e323">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Any Contractor
                              request for a determination submitted after
                              contract award shall explain why the Contractor
                              could not reasonably foresee the need for such
                              determination and could not have requested the
                              determination before contract award. If the
                              Contractor does not submit a satisfactory
                              explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make
                              a determination.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e328">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> If the Government
                        determines after contract award that an exception to
                        section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American
                        statute applies and the Contracting Officer and the
                        Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the
                        Contracting Officer will modify the contract to allow
                        use of the foreign construction material. However, when
                        the basis for the exception is the unreasonable cost of
                        a domestic construction material, adequate consideration
                        is not less than the differential established in
                        paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this clause.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e333">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> Unless the Government
                        determines that an exception to section 1605 of the
                        Recovery Act or the Buy American statute applies, use of
                        foreign construction material other than manufactured
                        construction material from a Recovery Act designated
                        country or unmanufactured construction material from a
                        designated country is noncompliant with the applicable
                        statute.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e338">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Data</i>. To permit evaluation of
                  requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on
                  unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following
                  information and any applicable supporting data based on the
                  survey of suppliers:</p>
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e344">Foreign (Nondesignated Country) and Domestic
                  Construction Materials Cost Comparison</p>
               <table colsep="0" frame="none" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table ">
                  <tgroup cols="4"
                          colsep="0"
                          outputclass="Notitle_norule"
                          rowsep="0"
                          class="- topic/tgroup ">
                     <colspec colname="1"
                              colnum="1"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="46*"
                              rowheader="headers"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colname="2"
                              colnum="2"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              rowheader="headers"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colname="3"
                              colnum="3"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              rowheader="headers"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colname="4"
                              colnum="4"
                              colsep="0"
                              colwidth="18*"
                              rowheader="headers"
                              class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="1"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Construction Material
                              Description</entry>
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="2"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Unit of Measure</entry>
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="3"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Quantity</entry>
                           <entry align="center"
                                  colname="4"
                                  outputclass="CellHeading_9pt_Ctr"
                                  xtrc="9pt"
                                  class="- topic/entry ">Cost (Dollars)*</entry>
                        </row>
                     </thead>
                     <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Item 1</i>:</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Foreign construction
                                 material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e680"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e642"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="MultiLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e651"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Domestic construction
                                 material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e668"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e677"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e686"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Item 2</i>:</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Foreign construction
                                 material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e753"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e762"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e771"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">Domestic construction
                                 material</p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e788"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e797"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">
                                 <cite outputclass="SingleLine"
                                       xtrc="52.225-23_d1e806"
                                       xtrf="VFI"
                                       class="- topic/cite ">________</cite>
                              </p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                           <entry colname="4" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
                           <entry nameend="4" namest="1" class="- topic/entry ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">List name, address,
                                 telephone number, and contact for suppliers
                                 surveyed.</i>
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Attach copy of
                                 response; if oral, attach summary.</i>]</p>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">[<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Include other
                                 applicable supporting information</i>.]</p>
                              <p class="- topic/p ">[* <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Include all delivery
                                 costs to the construction site</i>.]</p>
                           </entry>
                        </row>
                     </tbody>
                  </tgroup>
               </table>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
         <section outputclass="Alternate" class="- topic/section "><?FM MARKER [Alt] Start?>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3424e492">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I </i>
               <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Nov 2023)</ph> . As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
                  <xref base="i1090904"
                        href="25.1102.dita#FAR_25_1102"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">25.1102</xref>
               </ph>(e), add the following
               definition of "Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction material"
               to paragraph (a) of the basic clause, and substitute the
               following paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for paragraphs (b)(1) and
               (b)(2) of the basic clause:</p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
               <i outputclass="Term"
                  xtrf="_52.225-23"
                  xtrc="d3417e933"
                  class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction material</i> means a construction material that-  </p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e510" outputclass="List2">
               <ph platform="hide" props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Bahrain, Mexico, or Oman; or</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " id="d3421e515" outputclass="List2">
               <ph platform="hide" props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed in Bahrain, Mexico, or Oman into a new and different construction material distinct from the materials from which it was transformed. </p>
            <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Construction materials.</i> (1) The
               restrictions of section 1605 of the American Recovery and
               Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) do not
               apply to Recovery Act designated country manufactured
               construction material. The restrictions of the Buy American
               statute do not apply to designated country unmanufactured
               construction material. Consistent with U.S. obligations under
               international agreements, this clause implements-</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(i) Section 1605 of the Recovery Act, by
               requiring, unless an exception applies, that all manufactured
               construction material in the project is manufactured in the
               United States and, if the construction material consists wholly
               or predominantly of iron or steel, the iron or steel was produced
               in the United States (produced in the United States means that
               all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must take place
               in the United States, except metallurgical processes involving
               refinement of steel additives); and</p>
            <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The Buy American statute by providing a
               preference for unmanufactured construction material mined or
               produced in the United States over unmanufactured construction
               material mined or produced in a nondesignated country.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="List1" id="d3419e551">(2) The Contractor shall use only domestic
               construction material, Recovery Act designated country
               manufactured construction material, or designated country
               unmanufactured construction material, other than Bahraini,
               Mexican, or Omani construction material, in performing this
               contract, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of
               this clause.</p>
            <?FM MARKER [Alt] End?>
         </section>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
