<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_52_214_7" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">52.214-7</ph> Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids.</title>
      <conbody outputclass="provision" class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e8">As prescribed in <ph outputclass="ClauseProvisionXREF" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="14.201-6.dita#FAR_14_201_6"
                     base="i1110459"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">14.201-6</xref>(c)(3)</ph>, insert the following provision:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" id="d3175e15">Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids <ph outputclass="SmCaps" class="- topic/ph ">(Nov 1999)</ph>
         </p>
         <ol id="d3140e25" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Bidders are responsible for submitting bids, and any modifications or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the invitation for bids (IFB) by the time specified in the IFB. If no time is specified in the IFB, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that bids are due.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e26">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d3140e44" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e31">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Any bid, modification, or withdrawal received at the Government office designated in the IFB after the exact time specified for receipt of bids is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late bid would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-</p>
                     <ol id="d3140e54" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e37">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
										                    If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the IFB, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. oneworking day prior to the date specified for receipt of bids; or</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e42">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
										                    There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of bids and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of bids.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e47">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                However, a late modification of an otherwise successful bid that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e52">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the bid wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e57">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that bids cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of bids by the exact time specified in the IFB and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the IFB, the time specified for receipt of bids will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d3175e62">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            Bids may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids. If the IFB authorizes facsimile bids, bids may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at <xref href="52.214-31.dita#FAR_52_214_31"
                        base="i1060334"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.214-31</xref>, Facsimile Bids. A bid may be withdrawn in person by a bidder or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of bids, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the bid.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p class="- topic/p " outputclass="Endofprovision">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
