<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_7_105" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">7.105</ph> Contents of written acquisition
plans.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p id="d418e8" class="- topic/p ">In order to facilitate attainment of the
acquisition objectives, the plan must identify those milestones
at which decisions should be made (see paragraph (b)(21) of this
section). The plan must address all the technical, business, management,
and other significant considerations that will control the acquisition.
The specific content of plans will vary, depending on the nature,
circumstances, and stage of the acquisition. In preparing the plan,
the planner must follow the applicable instructions in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this section, together with the agency’s implementing
procedures. Acquisition plans for service contracts or orders must
describe the strategies for implementing performance-based acquisition
methods or must provide rationale for not using those methods (see <xref href="Subpart_37.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_37_6"
                  base="i1077388"
                  outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                  class="- topic/xref ">subpart  37.6</xref>).</p>
         <ol id="d404e22" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acquisition background and objectives</i>-</p>
               <ol id="d404e35" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e23">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Statement
of need</i>. Introduce the plan by a brief statement of need. Summarize
the technical and contractual history of the acquisition. Discuss
feasible acquisition alternatives, the impact of prior acquisitions
on those alternatives, and any related in-house effort.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e30">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Applicable
conditions</i>. State all significant conditions affecting the acquisition,
such as-</p>
                     <ol id="d404e60" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e38">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Requirements for compatibility
with existing or future systems or programs; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e43">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Any known
cost, schedule, and capability or performance constraints.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost.</i> Set
forth the established cost goals for the acquisition and the rationale
supporting them, and discuss related cost concepts to be employed,
including, as appropriate, the following items:</p>
                     <ol id="d404e93" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e56">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Life-cycle
cost</i>. Discuss how life-cycle cost will be considered. If it
is not used, explain why. If appropriate, discuss the cost model
used to develop life-cycle-cost estimates.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e63">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Design-to-cost</i>.
Describe the design-to-cost objective(s) and underlying assumptions,
including the rationale for quantity, learning-curve, and economic
adjustment factors. Describe how objectives are to be applied, tracked,
and enforced. Indicate specific related solicitation and contractual
requirements to be imposed.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e70">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Application
of should-cost</i>. Describe the application of should-cost analysis
to the acquisition (see <xref href="15.407-4.dita#FAR_15_407_4"
                                    base="i1106555"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">15.407-4</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e80">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Capability
or performance</i>. Specify the required capabilities or performance
characteristics of the supplies or the performance standards of
the services being acquired and state how they are related to the
need.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e87">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Delivery
or performance-period requirements</i>. Describe the basis for establishing
delivery or performance-period requirements (see <xref href="Subpart_11.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_11_4"
                              base="i1114112"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  11.4</xref>). Explain
and provide reasons for any urgency if it results in concurrency
of development and production or constitutes justification for not
providing for full and open competition.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e97">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Trade-offs</i>.
Discuss the expected consequences of trade-offs among the various
cost, capability or performance, and schedule goals.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e104">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Risks</i>.
Discuss technical, cost, and schedule risks and describe what efforts
are planned or underway to reduce risk and the consequences of failure
to achieve goals. If concurrency of development and production is
planned, discuss its effects on cost and schedule risks.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e111">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acquisition
streamlining</i>. If specifically designated by the requiring agency
as a program subject to acquisition streamlining, discuss plans
and procedures to-</p>
                     <ol id="d404e199" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e119">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Encourage industry participation
by using draft solicitations, presolicitation conferences, and other
means of stimulating industry involvement during design and development
in recommending the most appropriate application and tailoring of
contract requirements;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e124">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Select
and tailor only the necessary and cost-effective requirements; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e129">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               State
the timeframe for identifying which of those specifications and
standards, originally provided for guidance only, shall become mandatory.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e134">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                   Plan of
action—</p>
               <ol id="d404e240" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e140">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Sources</i>.</p>
                     <ol id="d404e253" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e148">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Indicate
the prospective sources of supplies or services that can meet the
need.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e153">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Consider
required sources of supplies or services (see <xref href="Part_8.dita#FAR_Part_8"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  8</xref>)
and sources identifiable through databases including the Governmentwide
database of contracts and other procurement instruments intended
for use by multiple agencies available at <xref href="https://www.contractdirectory.gov/contractdirectory/"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">https://www.contractdirectory.gov/contractdirectory/</xref>.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e164">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Include
consideration of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged
business, and women-owned small business concerns (see <xref href="Part_19.dita#FAR_Part_19"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  19</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e172">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Consider
the impact of any consolidation or bundling that might affect participation
of small businesses in the acquisition (see <xref href="7.107.dita#FAR_7_107"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">7.107</xref>)
(15 U.S.C. 644(e) and 15 U.S.C. 657q).
When the proposed acquisition strategy involves bundling, identify
the incumbent contractors and contracts affected by the bundling.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e186">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                               Address
the extent and results of the market research and indicate their
impact on the various elements of the plan (see <xref href="Part_10.dita#FAR_Part_10"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  10</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e194">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                         Competition.</p>
                     <ol id="d404e331" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e200">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Describe
how competition will be sought, promoted, and sustained throughout
the course of the acquisition. If full and open competition is not
contemplated, cite the authority in <xref href="6.302.dita#FAR_6_302"
                                    base="i1119460"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">6.302</xref>,
discuss the basis for the application of that authority, identify
the source(s), and discuss why full and open competition cannot
be obtained.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e208">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               Identify
the major components or subsystems. Discuss component breakout plans
relative to these major components or subsystems. Describe how competition
will be sought, promoted, and sustained for these components or
subsystems.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e213">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Describe
how competition will be sought, promoted, and sustained for spares
and repair parts. Identify the key logistic milestones, such as
technical data delivery schedules and acquisition method coding
conferences, that affect competition.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e218">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               When effective
subcontract competition is both feasible and desirable, describe
how such subcontract competition will be sought, promoted, and sustained
throughout the course of the acquisition. Identify any known barriers
to increasing subcontract competition and address how to overcome
them.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e223">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract
type selection</i>. Discuss the rationale for the selection of contract
type. For other than firm-fixed-price contracts, see <xref href="16.103.dita#FAR_16_103"
                              base="i1105167"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">16.103</xref>(d) for additional
documentation guidance. Acquisition personnel shall document the
acquisition plan with findings that detail the particular facts
and circumstances, (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, complexity of the requirements,
uncertain duration of the work, contractor’s technical capability
and financial responsibility, or adequacy of the contractor’s accounting system),
and associated reasoning essential to support the contract type
selection. The contracting officer shall ensure that requirements
and technical personnel provide the necessary documentation to support
the contract type selection.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e236">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Source-selection procedures.</i> Discuss the source selection procedures for the acquisition, including the basis for using a reverse auction (when applicable), the timing for submission and evaluation of proposals, and the relationship of evaluation factors to the attainment of the acquisition objectives (see <xref href="Subpart_15.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_15_3"
                              base="i1108536"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  15.3</xref>). When an EVMS is required (see FAR <xref href="34.202.dita#FAR_34_202"
                              base="i1079915"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">34.202</xref>(a)) and a preaward IBR is contemplated, the acquisition plan must discuss-</p>
                     <ol id="d404e409" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e250">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               How
the pre-award IBR will be considered in the source selection decision;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e255">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               How it
will be conducted in the source selection process (see FAR <xref href="15.306.dita#FAR_15_306"
                                    base="i1108639"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">15.306</xref>); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e263">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               Whether
offerors will be directly compensated for the costs of participating
in a pre-award IBR.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e268">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(5)</ph>
                         Acquisition
considerations.</p>
                     <ol id="d404e451" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e274">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               For each contract contemplated,
discuss use of multiyear contracting, options, or other special
contracting methods (see <xref href="Part_17.dita#FAR_Part_17"
                                    base="i1103434"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  17</xref>);
any special clauses, special solicitation provisions, or FAR deviations
required (see <xref href="Subpart_1.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_1_4"
                                    base="i1126600"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  1.4</xref>);
whether sealed bidding or negotiation will be used and why; whether
equipment will be acquired by lease or purchase (see <xref href="Subpart_7.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_7_4"
                                    base="i1118587"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  7.4</xref>) and
why; and any other contracting considerations. Provide rationale
if a performance-based acquisition will not be used or if a performance-based
acquisition for services is contemplated on other than a firm-fixed-price
basis (see <xref href="37.102.dita#FAR_37_102"
                                    base="i1077789"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">37.102</xref>(a), <xref href="16.103.dita#FAR_16_103"
                                    base="i1105167"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">16.103</xref>(d), and <xref href="16.505.dita#FAR_16_505"
                                    base="i1104008"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">16.505</xref>(a)(3)).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e298">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               For each
order contemplated, discuss-</p>
                           <ol id="d404e489" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e304">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(A)</ph>
                                     For information
technology acquisitions, how the capital planning and investment
control requirements of 40 U.S.C. 11312 and
OMB Circular A-130 will be met (see <xref href="7.103.dita#FAR_7_103"
                                          base="i1118821"
                                          outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">7.103</xref>(v)
and <xref href="Part_39.dita#FAR_Part_39"
                                          base="i1077208"
                                          outputclass="fm:Part"
                                          class="- topic/xref ">part  39</xref>); and</p>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">
                                 <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e318">
                                    <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(B)</ph>
                                     Why this
action benefits the Government, such as when-</p>
                                 <ol id="d404e517" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="7.105_d21e323" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e324">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                                           The agency can accomplish its
mission more efficiently and effectively (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> take advantage
of the servicing agency’s specialized expertise; or gain access
to contractors with needed expertise); or</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li outputclass="italic" xtrf="7.105_d21e331" class="- topic/li ">
                                       <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e332">
                                          <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                                           Ordering through an indefinite
delivery contract facilitates access to small business concerns,
including small disadvantaged business concerns, 8(a) contractors,
women-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns,
veteran-owned small business concerns, or service-disabled veteran-owned
small business concerns.</p>
                                    </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e337">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               For information
technology acquisitions using Internet Protocol, discuss whether
the requirements documents include the Internet Protocol compliance
requirements specified in <xref href="11.002.dita#FAR_11_002"
                                    base="i1114351"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">11.002</xref>(g)
or a waiver of these requirements has been granted by the agency’s
Chief Information Officer.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e345">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               For information
technology acquisitions, identify the applicable ICT accessibility
standard(s). When an exception or an exemption to the standard(s)
applies, the plan must list the exception and/or exemption, and
the item(s) to which it applies. For those items listing <xref href="39.204.dita#FAR_39_204"
                                    base="i1105167"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">39.204</xref> or <xref href="39.205.dita#FAR_39_205"
                                    base="i1105167"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">39.205</xref>(a)(1) or (2), the
corresponding accessibility standard does not need to be identified.
See <xref href="Subpart_39.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_39_2"
                                    base="i1081624"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  39.2</xref> and <xref href="https://www.federalregister.gov/select-citation/2021/08/11/36-CFR-1194.1"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">36 CFR 1194.1</xref>.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e362">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                               For each
contract (and order) contemplated, discuss the strategy to transition
to firm-fixed-price contracts to the maximum extent practicable.
During the requirements development stage, consider structuring
the contract requirements, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, line items, in a manner
that will permit some, if not all, of the requirements to be awarded
on a firm-fixed-price basis, either in the current contract, future
option years, or follow-on contracts. This will facilitate an easier
transition to a firm-fixed-price contract, because a cost history
will be developed for a recurring definitive requirement.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e370">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(6)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Budgeting
and funding.</i> Include budget estimates, explain how they were
derived, and discuss the schedule for obtaining adequate funds at
the time they are required (see <xref href="Subpart_32.7.dita#FAR_Subpart_32_7"
                              base="i1081624"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  32.7</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e380">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(7)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Product
or service descriptions.</i> Explain the choice of product or service
description types (including performance-based acquisition descriptions)
to be used in the acquisition.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e387">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(8)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Priorities,
allocations, and allotments</i>. When urgency of the requirement
dictates a particularly short delivery or performance schedule,
certain priorities may apply. If so, specify the method for obtaining
and using priorities, allocations, and allotments, and the reasons
for them (see <xref href="Subpart_11.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_11_6"
                              base="i1113975"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  11.6</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e397">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(9)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contractor
versus Government performance</i>. Address the consideration given
to OMB CircularNo.A-76 (see <xref href="Subpart_7.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_7_3"
                              base="i1118654"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  7.3</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e407">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(10)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Inherently
governmental functions</i>. Address the consideration given to <xref href="Subpart_7.5.dita#FAR_Subpart_7_5"
                              base="i1118491"
                              outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                              class="- topic/xref ">subpart  7.5</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e417">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(11)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Management
information requirements</i>. Discuss, as appropriate, what management
system will be used by the Government to monitor the contractor’s
effort. If an Earned Value Management System is to be used, discuss
the methodology the Government will employ to analyze and use the
earned value data to assess and monitor contract performance. In
addition, discuss how the offeror’s/contractor’s EVMS will be verified
for compliance with the Electronic Industries Alliance Standard
748 (EIA-748), Earned Value Management Systems, and the timing and
conduct of integrated baseline reviews (whether prior to or post
award). (See <xref href="34.202.dita#FAR_34_202"
                              base="i1079915"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">34.202</xref>.)</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e428">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(12)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Make
or buy.</i> Discuss any consideration given to make-or-buy programs
(see <xref href="15.407-2.dita#FAR_15_407_2"
                              base="i1106492"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">15.407-2</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e438">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(13)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Test
and evaluation.</i> To the extent applicable, describe the test
program of the contractor and the Government. Describe the test
program for each major phase of a major system acquisition. If concurrency
is planned, discuss the extent of testing to be accomplished before
production release.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e445">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(14)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Logistics
considerations</i>. Describe-</p>
                     <ol id="d404e697" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e453">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               The assumptions
determining contractor or agency support, both initially and over
the life of the acquisition, including consideration of contractor
or agency maintenance and servicing (see <xref href="Subpart_7.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_7_3"
                                    base="i1118654"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  7.3</xref>), support
for contracts to be performed in a designated operational area or
supporting a diplomatic or consular mission (see <xref href="25.301-3.dita#FAR_25_301_3"
                                    base="i1092936"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">25.301-3</xref>); and distribution
of commercial products or commercial services;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e464">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The reliability,
maintainability, and quality assurance requirements, including any
planned use of warranties (see <xref href="Part_46.dita#FAR_Part_46"
                                    base="i1072601"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  46</xref>);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e472">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               The requirements
for contractor data (including repurchase data) and data rights,
their estimated cost, and the use to be made of the data (see <xref href="Part_27.dita#FAR_Part_27"
                                    base="i1090283"
                                    outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  27</xref>); and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e480">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               Standardization
concepts, including the necessity to designate, in accordance with
agency procedures, technical equipment as "standard" so that future
purchases of the equipment can be made from the same manufacturing source.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e485">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(15)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Government-furnished
property</i>. Indicate any Government property to be furnished to
contractors, and discuss any associated considerations, such as
its availability or the schedule for its acquisition (see <xref href="45.102.dita#FAR_45_102"
                              base="i1073148"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">45.102</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e495">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(16)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Government-furnished
information.</i> Discuss any Government information, such as manuals,
drawings, and test data, to be provided to prospective offerors
and contractors. Indicate which information that requires additional
controls to monitor access and distribution (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, technical
specifications, maps, building designs, schedules, etc.), as determined by
the agency, is to be posted via the enhanced controls of the Governmentwide
point of entry (GPE) at 
                           <xref href="https://www.sam.gov"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external"
                              class="- topic/xref ">https://www.sam.gov</xref>
                           
                        (see <xref href="5.102.dita#FAR_5_102"
                              base="i1121037"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">5.102</xref>(a)).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e511">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(17)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Environmental and energy conservation objectives</i>. Discuss—
                     </p>
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d422e522">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph> All applicable environmental and energy conservation objectives associated with the acquisition (see <xref outputclass="fm:Part"
                                    href="Part_23.dita#FAR_Part_23"
                                    base="FAR-part 23"
                                    xtrc="part 23"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">part  23</xref>); </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d422e528">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                              The applicability of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement (see <xref href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-40/part-1502"
                                    format="html"
                                    scope="external"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">40 CFR part 1502</xref>);
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d422e537">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                              The proposed resolution of environmental issues; and
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d422e543">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph> Any sustainable acquisition requirements to be included in the solicitation and contract (see <xref href="11.002.dita#FAR_11_002"
                                    base="i1114351"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">11.002</xref> and  <xref href="Part_23.dita#FAR_Part_23"
                                    outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">23</xref>). </p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e530">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(18)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Security
considerations</i>.</p>
                     <ol id="d404e818" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e538">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               For acquisitions dealing with
classified matters, discuss how adequate security will be established,
maintained, and monitored (see <xref href="Subpart_4.4.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_4"
                                    base="i1123044"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  4.4</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e546">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               For information
technology acquisitions, discuss how agency information security
requirements will be met.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e551">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               For acquisitions
requiring routine contractor physical access to a Federally-controlled
facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information
system, discuss how agency requirements for personal identity verification
of contractors will be met (see <xref href="Subpart_4.13.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_13"
                                    base="i1123044"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  4.13</xref>).</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e559">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               For acquisitions
that may require Federal contract information to reside in or transit
through contractor information systems, discuss compliance with <xref href="Subpart_4.19.dita#FAR_Subpart_4_19"
                                    base="i1123044"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  4.19</xref>.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e567">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(19)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract
administration</i>. Describe how the contract will be administered.
In contracts for services, include how inspection and acceptance
corresponding to the work statement’s performance criteria will
be enforced. In contracts for supplies or service contracts that
include supplies, address whether higher-level quality standards
are necessary (<xref href="46.202.dita#FAR_46_202"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">46.202</xref>) and whether the
supplies to be acquired are critical items (<xref href="46.101.dita#FAR_46_101"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">46.101</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e580">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(20)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Other
considerations.</i> Discuss, as applicable:</p>
                     <ol id="d404e890" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e588">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(i)</ph>
                               Standardization
concepts;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e593">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(ii)</ph>
                               The industrial
readiness program;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e598">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iii)</ph>
                               The Defense
Production Act;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e603">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(iv)</ph>
                               The Occupational
Safety and Health Act;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e608">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(v)</ph>
                               Support
Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (SAFETY
Act) (see <xref href="Subpart_50.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_50_2"
                                    base="i1066530"
                                    outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                                    class="- topic/xref ">subpart  50.2</xref>);</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e616">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vi)</ph>
                               Foreign
sales implications;</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e621">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(vii)</ph>
                               Special
requirements for contracts to be performed in a designated operational
area or supporting a diplomatic or consular mission; and</p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e626">
                              <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(viii)</ph>
                               Any
other matters germane to the plan not covered elsewhere.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e631">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(21)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Milestones
for the acquisition cycle</i>. Address the following steps and any
others appropriate:</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e637">Acquisition plan approval.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e639">Statement of work.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e641">Specifications.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e643">Data requirements.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e645">Completion
of acquisition-package preparation.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e647">Purchase
request.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e649">Justification and approval for other
than full and open competition where applicable and/or any required
D&amp;F approval.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e651">Issuance of synopsis.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e653">Issuance of solicitation.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e655">Evaluation
of proposals, audits, and field reports.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e658">Beginning
and completion of negotiations.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e660">Contract preparation,
review, and clearance.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e662">Contract award.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d418e665">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(22)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Identification
of participants in acquisition plan preparation.</i> List the individuals
who participated in preparing the acquisition plan, giving contact
information for each.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
