<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_7_104" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">7.104</ph> General procedures.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d403e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  
						            Acquisition planning should begin	as soon as the agency need is identified, preferably well in advance	of the fiscal year in which contract award or order placement is	necessary. In developing the plan, the planner shall form a team	consisting of all those who will be responsible for significant	aspects of the acquisition, such as contracting, small business, fiscal,	legal, and technical personnel. If contract performance is to be	in a designated operational area or supporting a diplomatic or consular	mission, the planner shall also consider inclusion of the combatant	commander or chief of mission, as appropriate. The planner should	review previous plans for similar acquisitions and discuss them	with the key personnel involved in those acquisitions. At key dates	specified in the plan or whenever significant changes occur, and	no less often than annually, the planner shall review the plan and,	if appropriate, revise it.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e15">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  
						            Requirements	and logistics personnel should avoid issuing requirements on an	urgent basis or with unrealistic delivery or performance schedules,	since it generally restricts competition and increases prices. Early	in the planning process, the planner should consult with requirements	and logistics personnel who determine type, quality, quantity, and	delivery requirements.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
                  
						            The planner	shall coordinate with and secure the concurrence of the contracting	officer in all acquisition planning. If the plan proposes using	other than full and open competition when awarding a contract, the	plan shall also be coordinated with the cognizant advocate for competition.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e25">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
                  
						            The planner	shall coordinate the acquisition plan or strategy with the cognizant	small business specialist when the strategy contemplates an acquisition	meeting the thresholds in <xref href="7.107-4.dita#FAR_7_107_4"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">7.107-4</xref> for substantial	bundling unless the contract or task order or delivery order is	totally set-aside for small business under <xref href="Part_19.dita#FAR_Part_19"
                        outputclass="fm:Part"
                        class="- topic/xref ">part  19</xref>.	The small business specialist shall notify the agency Office of	Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization or the Office of Small	Business Programs if the strategy involves-</p>
               <ol id="d403e56" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e37">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        
								                Bundling that	is unnecessary or unjustified; or</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e42">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        
								                Bundled	or consolidated requirements not identified as such by the agency	(see <xref href="7.107.dita#FAR_7_107"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">7.107</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d417e50">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
                  
						            The planner	shall ensure that a COR is nominated as early as practicable in	the acquisition process by the requirements official or in accordance	with agency procedures. The contracting officer shall designate	and authorize a COR as early as practicable after the nomination.	See <xref href="1.602-2.dita#FAR_1_602_2"
                        base="i1126427"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">1.602-2</xref>(d).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
