<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_9_104_3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">9.104-3</ph> Application of standards.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d532e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Ability to obtain resources</i>.
Except to the extent that a prospective contractor has sufficient
resources or proposes to perform the contract by subcontracting,
the contracting officer shall require acceptable evidence of the
prospective contractor’s ability to obtain required resources (see <xref href="9.104-1.dita#FAR_9_104_1"
                        base="i1116081"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.104-1</xref>(a), (e), and (f)).
Acceptable evidence normally consists of a commitment or explicit
arrangement, that will be in existence at the time of contract award,
to rent, purchase, or otherwise acquire the needed facilities, equipment,
other resources, or personnel. Consideration of a prime contractor’s
compliance with limitations on subcontracting shall take into account
the time period covered by the contract base period or quantities plus
option periods or quantities, if such options are considered when
evaluating offers for award.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e20">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Satisfactory performance record</i>. A prospective
                  contractor that is or recently has been seriously deficient in
                  contract performance shall be presumed to be nonresponsible,
                  unless the contracting officer determines that the
                  circumstances were properly beyond the contractor’s control,
                  or that the contractor has taken appropriate corrective
                  action. Past failure to apply sufficient tenacity and
                  perseverance to perform acceptably is strong evidence of
                  nonresponsibility. Failure to meet the quality requirements of
                  the contract is a significant factor to consider in
                  determining satisfactory performance. The contracting officer
                  shall consider the number of contracts involved and the extent
                  of deficient performance in each contract when making this
                  determination. If the pending contract requires a
                  subcontracting plan pursuant to <xref href="Subpart_19.7.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_7"
                        base="i1100205"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  19.7</xref>, The Small
                  Business Subcontracting Program, the contracting officer shall
                  also consider the prospective contractor’s compliance with
                  subcontracting plans under recent contracts.</p>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e30">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e36">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Affiliated
                           concerns</i>. Affiliated concerns (see "Concern" in <xref href="19.001.dita#FAR_19_001"
                              base="i1101793"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.001</xref> and "Small business concern"
                        in <xref href="2.101.dita#FAR_2_101"
                              base="i1125359"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">2.101</xref> ) are normally considered
                        separate entities in determining whether the concern that is to perform the
                        contract meets the applicable standards for responsibility. However, the
                        contracting officer shall consider the affiliate’s past performance and
                        integrity when they may adversely affect the prospective contractor’s
                        responsibility.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e49">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Joint
                              ventures.</i> For a prospective contractor that is
                           a joint venture, the contracting officer shall
                           consider the past performance of the joint venture.
                           If the joint venture does not demonstrate past
                           performance for award, the contracting officer shall
                           consider the past performance of each party to the
                           joint
                           venture.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li props="Runin" class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e43">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
               </p>
               <ol id="d532e71" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
                        <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Small
business concerns</i>. Upon making a determination of nonresponsibility
with regard to a small business concern, the contracting officer
shall refer the matter to the Small Business Administration, which
will decide whether to issue a Certificate of Competency (see subpart <xref href="Subpart_19.6.dita#FAR_Subpart_19_6"
                              base="i1100603"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">19.6</xref>).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d547e58">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
                        <i>Limitations on subcontracting</i>. A small business that is unable to comply with the limitations on subcontracting may be considered nonresponsible (see <xref href="52.219-3.dita#FAR_52_219_3"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-3</xref>, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole Source Award; <xref href="52.219-4.dita#FAR_52_219_4"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-4</xref>, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns; <xref href="52.219-14.dita#FAR_52_219_14"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-14</xref>, Limitations on Subcontracting; <xref href="52.219-27.dita#FAR_52_219_27"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-27</xref>,Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the SDVOSB Program; <xref href="52.219-29.dita#FAR_52_219_29"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-29</xref>, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business Concerns; and <xref href="52.219-30.dita#FAR_52_219_30"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.219-30</xref>, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program). A small business that has not agreed to comply with the limitations on subcontracting may be considered nonresponsive. </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
