<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="FAR_9_405_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrc="">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">9.405-2</ph> Restrictions on subcontracting.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d584e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e10">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph> When a contractor debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, is proposed as a subcontractor for any subcontract subject to Government consent (see <xref href="Subpart_44.2.dita#FAR_Subpart_44_2"
                        base="i1073536"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  44.2</xref>), contracting officers shall not consent to subcontracts with such contractors unless the agency head states in writing the compelling reasons for this approval action. (See <xref href="9.405.dita#FAR_9_405"
                        base="i1115236"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.405</xref> concerning declarations of ineligibility affecting sub-contracting.)</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e21">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph> The Government suspends or debars contractors to protect the Government’s interests. Contractors are prohibited from entering into any subcontract in excess of <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph "><?FM MARKER [CaseNumber] FAR Case 2024-001?>$45,000<?FM MARKER [Why] Amend section 9.405-2 in paragraph (b) introductory text by removing “$35,000” wherever it appears and adding “$45,000” in their places, respectively.?></ph>, other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, with a contractor that has been debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, unless there is a compelling reason to do so. If a contractor intends to enter into a subcontract in excess of <ph rev="FAC 2025-06 October 1, 2025" class="- topic/ph ">$45,000</ph>, other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, with a party that is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, as evidenced by the party's having an active exclusion record in SAM (see <xref href="9.404.dita#FAR_9_404"
                        base="i1115204"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">9.404</xref>), a corporate officer or designee of the contractor is required by operation of the clause at <xref href="52.209-6.dita#FAR_52_209_6"
                        base="i1062590"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.209-6</xref>, Protecting the Government’s Interest when Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, Proposed for Debarment, or Voluntarily Excluded, to notify the contracting officer, in writing, before entering into such subcontract. For contracts for the acquisition of commercial products, the notification requirement applies only for first-tier subcontracts. For all other contracts, the notification requirement applies to subcontracts at any tier. The notice must provide the following:</p>
               <ol id="d584e47" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e33">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph> The
name of the subcontractor;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e38">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph> The contractor’s
knowledge of the reasons for the subcontractor having an active
exclusion record in SAM;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e43">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(3)</ph> The compelling
reason(s) for doing business with the subcontractor notwithstanding
its having an active exclusion record in SAM; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e48">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(4)</ph> The systems and procedures the contractor has established to ensure that it is fully protecting the Government’s interests when dealing with such subcontractor in view of the specific basis for the party’s debarment, suspension, proposed debarment, or voluntary exclusion.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p " id="d611e53">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph> The contractor’s
compliance with the requirements of <xref href="52.209-6.dita#FAR_52_209_6"
                        base="i1062590"
                        outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref ">52.209-6</xref> will be reviewed
during Contractor Purchasing System Reviews (see <xref href="Subpart_44.3.dita#FAR_Subpart_44_3"
                        base="i1073426"
                        outputclass="fm:Subpart"
                        class="- topic/xref ">subpart  44.3</xref>).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
