<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)              (topic concept)              (topic concept glossentry)              (topic concept glossgroup)              (topic reference)              (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)              (topic abbrev-d)              a(props deliveryTarget)              (topic equation-d)              (topic hazard-d)              (topic hi-d)              (topic indexing-d)              (topic markup-d)              (topic mathml-d)              (topic pr-d)              (topic relmgmt-d)              (topic sw-d)              (topic svg-d)              (topic ui-d)              (topic ut-d)              (topic markup-d xml-d)              (topic task strictTaskbody-c)  "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="FAR_32_503_15"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">32.503-15</ph> Application of Government title terms.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body concept/conbody ">
         <ol id="d2107e13" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2132e10" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(a)</ph>
						            Property to which the Government obtains title by operation of the Progress Payments clause solely is not, as a consequence, Government-furnished property.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2132e15" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(b)</ph>
						            Although property title is vested in the Government under the Progress Payments clause, the acquisition, handling, and disposition of certain types of property are governed by-</p>
               <ol id="d2107e32" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2132e21" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                The clause at <xref href="52.245-1.dita#FAR_52_245_1"
                              base="i1047486"
                              outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref ">52.245-1</xref>, Government Property; and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2132e29" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                The termination clauses at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                              class="- topic/xref "
                              base="id123456ai"
                              href="52.249.dita#FAR_52_249">52.249</xref>, for termination inventory.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2132e37" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(c)</ph>
						            The contractor may sell or otherwise dispose of current production scrap in the ordinary course of business on its own volition, even if title has vested in the Government under the Progress Payments clause. The contracting officer shall require the contractor to credit the costs of the contract performance with the proceeds of the scrap disposition.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2132e42" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(d)</ph>
						            When the title to materials or other inventories is vested in the Government under the Progress Payments clause, the contractor may transfer the inventory items from the contract for its own use or other disposition only if, and on terms, approved by the contracting officer. The contractor shall-</p>
               <ol id="d2107e74" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2132e48" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(1)</ph>
								                Eliminate the costs allocable to the transferred property from the costs of contract performance, and</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p id="d2132e53" class="- topic/p ">
                        <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(2)</ph>
								                Repay or credit to the Government an amount equal to the unliquidated progress payments, allocable to the transferred property.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p id="d2132e58" class="- topic/p ">
                  <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">(e)</ph>
						            If excess property remains after the contract performance is complete and all contractor obligations under the contract are satisfied, including full liquidation of progress payments, the excess property is outside the scope of the Progress Payments clause. Therefore, the contractor holds title to it.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
